FOREWORD 
The  primary  purpose  of  the  Student  Handbook  is  to  provide  students  with  information, 

guidelines,  and  policies  that  will  guide  their  successful  adjustment  as  students  at  Paragon 

International University. The standards set forth in this Handbook shall serve as a guide for 

conduct for Paragon International University students.  

Upon matriculation, Paragon International University students are expected to abide by the 

rules and regulations contained in this Handbook and are further expected to conform to all 

general and specific requirements, to comply with duly constituted authority, and to conduct 

themselves  in  accordance  with  the  ideals,  educational  goals,  moral,  and  ethical  principles 

upon which the university was founded. 

Specific violations of the rules and regulations governing student conduct are handled by the 

vice rector of Student Affairs or designees. Breaches of academic integrity are handled by the 

vice rector of Academic Affairs. 

This Student Handbook provides information about aspects of student and university life to 

students and the university community. Its content is accurate at the time of publication but 

is  subject  to  change  from  time  to  time  as  deemed  appropriate  by  Paragon  International 

University in order to fulfill its role and mission or to accommodate circumstances beyond its 

control. 

Any  such  changes  may  be  implemented  without  prior  notice  or  obligation,  and  unless 

specified otherwise, are effective when made. 

This  handbook  is  not  to  be  regarded  as  a  contract  between  the  student  and  Paragon 

International University. 

 
MESSAGE FROM THE RECTOR 

Welcome! 

It has been 10 years since Paragon International University 
(formerly known as Zaman University) was established in 2010, 
and it certainly has been an amazing journey both for me 
personally and for the university to witness the successes and 
growth all these years. 

While more than half of our 350 alumni are currently holding 
good positions with various firms, organizations, and institutions 
or have started their own businesses in Cambodia, about 30% of 

them are pursuing their graduate studies (up to Ph.D. level) abroad. From New York 
University in the United States, to the University of Melbourne in Australia, from the 
University of Tokyo in Japan, to the University of Cambridge in the UK, our alumni have 
marked their presence across the globe.  

In spite of its relatively recent establishment, Paragon International University’s reputation 
is widely acknowledged. Our students’ accomplishments in national and regional 
competitions reflect not only their academic caliber but also the dedicated commitment and 
support provided by our highly qualified and truly international faculty and staff.  

Paragon International University envisions becoming a leading institution by focusing on 
quality teaching, research, and community service in Cambodia. As Rector, I am committed 
to supporting and fostering an environment for intellectual growth and life-long learning 
among our staff, faculty and students, and most importantly, to making Paragon 
International University is a community we can all identify ourselves with and be proud of. 

I wish everyone a successful academic year! 

Sincerely, 

Sok Udom DETH, PhD 
Rector  
Paragon International University 
 
ABOUT PARAGON INTERNATIONAL 
UNIVERSITY 

Paragon  International  University  is  a  private  university  founded  in  2010  by  the  Paragon 
International Company, which also includes three other campuses: a high school, a primary 
school, and a kindergarten/nursery school. Because of the success of the primary and high 
school campuses, the Paragon International Company decided to extend its mission and to 
contribute  further  to  the  development  and  improvement  of  education  in  the  country  of 
Cambodia by establishing a quality university. 

So,  with  the  same  enthusiasm  and  commitment  to  excellence,  Paragon  International 
University now strives to provide the highest quality university programs in Cambodia in effort 
to  raise  the  level  of  higher  education,  as  well  as  to  produce  an  excellent  pool  of  human 
resources that will make significant contributions to the overall development and enrichment 
of Cambodia and its citizens. By recognizing that we live in a global world and that there is a 
need for global communication, from the beginning, the language of instruction at Paragon 
International University has been English.  

Deputy Prime Minister HE Sok An spoke of his expectations of Paragon International University 
during  the  inauguration  of  the  Primary  School  campus  in  2008.  His  Excellency  words  and 
persuasive  reasoning  convinced  the  Management  Board  of  the  Paragon  International 
Company  that  the  time  had  come  for  Paragon  International  to  establish  a  high  standard 
university. 

VISION, MISSIONS & CORE VALUES 

The  global  world  in  which  we  live  today  is  being  shaped  up  by  extraordinary  individuals. 
Meeting the challenges and opportunities of an interdependent world will require versatile 
intellectual  competence  and  uncompromising  commitment.  Those  who  thrive  in  and 
contribute to this world will have a solid sense of who they are, and respect for who others 
are, as individuals, as members of a group, as citizens of their nation, and as members of a 
global community. They will have a rigorous academic preparation and passion to become 
the best they can be and to help others reach their best potential. 

Paragon  International  University  aspires  to  be  a  bold  and  dynamic  community,  with  an 
unparalleled sense of commitment, striving for positive influence and impact on Cambodia 
and  the  world  through  education,  research  and  service.  Every  member  of  our  university 
enjoys  diverse  opportunities  for  intellectual,  personal  and  professional  growth.  Paragon 
International University will be home to an academic community who will in turn promote 
outstanding individuals to succeed in our fast-changing world. 

Vision 
Paragon  International  University  strives  to  become  a  leading  private  higher  education 
provider in Cambodia in terms of quality of teaching, research, and community services. 

Missions 
In order to succeed in transforming the current Paragon International U to be a leading 
private higher education provider in Cambodia, five significant Missions are pursued: 

1.  Provide capacity building for students in all education and training programs to 
equip them with entrepreneurship and innovation skills, inquiry-based learning, 
cross-cultural competence, employability skills and a sense of social responsibility; 

2.  Become  a  leading  institution  for  administrative  sciences,  technology,  and 

engineering fields; 

3.  Become an institution of good governance in which all administrative and financial 
service  will  be  accountable,  transparent,  and  participatory  to  students,  staff 
members and stakeholders; 

4.  Become a leading institution in providing research, consultancy and community 

services; and 

5.  Become a leading institution that embraces life-long education. 

Core Values 

•  Responsibility 
• Integrity 
•  Discovery 
•  Excellence 

ACADEMIC FREEDOM AND NON-DISCRIMINATION STATEMENT 

Paragon  International  University  is  committed  to  the  fundamental  principles  of:  academic 
freedom, equal opportunity, and human dignity, all of which require that the decisions that 
relate  to  students  and  employees  be  based  upon  merit  and  be  free  from  invidious 
discrimination in all its forms.  

Paragon International University will not engage in discrimination or harassment against any 
person because of their race, color, religion, national origin, ancestry, age, marital status or 
disability  and  will  comply  with  all  national 
laws,  orders  and  regulations.  This 
nondiscrimination policy applies to admissions, employment, and access to and treatment in 
all university programs and activities. 

UNIVERSITY ORGANIZATION 

At the highest level, responsibility for the university rests with the Board of Directors, as seen 
in the chart on the next page of the overall organization of the university. 

Active management of the university is delegated by the Board of Directors to the university’s 
officers. At the pinnacle of the organization is the  rector, who is appointed by and reports 
directly  to  the  Board  of  Directors.  The  rector  chairs  both  the  Executive  Board  and  the 
Academic  Board.  The  Executive  Board  is  responsible  for  the  formulation  of  administrative 
policies  (which  must  be  approved  by  the  Board  of  Directors)  and  procedures  (which  the 
Executive Board may implement directly). The Executive Board is also a place where senior 
management can communicate and coordinate their activities.  

The  Academic  Board  is  the  principal  academic  body  of  the  university,  responsible  for 
maintaining the highest attainable academic standards and for formulating academic policy. 
It  is  responsible  for  promoting  the  vision  and  mission  of  the  university;  ensuring  that  all 
academic programs align with the guidelines and frameworks of the Department of Higher 
Education  and  the  Accreditation  Committee  of  Cambodia  (ACC);  establishing  policies 
regarding  student  academic  performance  and  student  conduct  matters  (including 
disciplinary);  and  establishing  student  admissions  policies  (including  special  admission 
schemes).  


ACADEMIC ADMINISTRATION 

The academic mission of the university is spread across five faculties, supported by the Office 
of Foundation Year Studies, and headed by the provost and vice rector for Academic Affairs. 
Three of Paragon International’s faculties currently grant undergraduate academic degrees. 
The other two faculties provide essential support courses to the degree programs. The Office 
of  Foundation  Year  Studies  works  with  the  provost  to  manage  the  first-year  Foundations 
curriculum. Each are detailed in what follows. 

THE OFFICE OF FOUNDATION YEAR STUDIES 

Under the supervision of the director of foundation-year studies, this office works to ensure 
the  smooth  delivery  of  the  Foundations  curriculum,  including  overseeing  necessary 
placement tests, and to maintain compliance with the Ministry of Education and Youth Sports 
(MoEYS) requirements for foundations certificates.  

To earn a Foundation Year Certificate, students must complete at least 6 credits in each of the 
following fields of study: 

Arts and Humanities (at least two separate subjects) 

I. 
II.  Mathematics, Science and Computer Science (at least two separate subjects) 
III. 
IV. 
V. 

Social Science (at least two separate subjects) 
Foreign Language (one language or two languages) 
Specialized Skills in Degree-Related Field (at least two separate subjects) 

Note: for foundation year studies item IV, English is considered to be a foreign language. 

THE FACULTY OF ECONOMICS AND ADMINISTRATIVE SCIENCES 

The Faculty of Economics and Administrative Sciences offers four undergraduate programs: 
Each  program  develops  administrative/managerial/diplomatic  skills  in  the  field  of  study 
against a background of economic and political understanding, in order to equip students with 
the innovative skills for success in an increasingly complex global arena. 

Department of Banking and Finance 
The undergraduate Banking and Finance program endeavors to qualify students to enter the 
financial  and  banking  sectors,  supplied  with  the  superior  knowledge  and  technical  skills 
competitive at an international level. Graduates of this program are able to utilize their well-
developed theoretical framework to operate successfully in Cambodia and abroad. 

The  program  is  intended  for  students  interested  in  a  broad  based  and  technically  sound 
undergraduate  finance  educational  experience.  The  Banking  and  Finance  program  is 
appropriate  for  students  with  a  wide  range  of  goals,  from  beginning  a  banking  career,  to 
working in a company’s finance office, to pursuing advanced graduate studies. 

Department of Business Administration 
Undergraduate Business Administration Program endeavors to prepare the next generation 
of  business  leaders  in  Cambodia  through  internationally  state-of-the-art  management 
education.    Through  a  learning  environment  that  combines  high  expectations,  an  open 
exchange  of  ideas,  and  learning  support  for  our  students,  Paragon  International  strives  to 
produce graduates for whom discovery, creativity, and innovation flourish. 

The  program  is  intended  for  students  interested  in  an  undergraduate  management 
educational  experience  that  is  broad  and  based  in  practical  business  skills.  Paragon 
International’s program is intellectually strong and able to accommodate the diverse interests 
of  students  with  a  wide  range  of  goals,  from  beginning  a  career,  to  opening  a  business. 
Successful students are qualified to go on with MBA studies or other graduate education. 

Department of International Trade and Logistics 
The main objective of the Paragon International University Department of International Trade 
and  Logistics  is  developing  graduates  who  can  function  effectively  in  the  dynamic  and 
complex  environment  of  the  global  marketplace.  Students  learn  to  implement  knowledge 
from  a  broad  range  of  academic  fields,  including  international  economics,  finance, 
management and administration. 

The program also aims to foster creative talent with practical skills and theoretical knowledge 
acquired through education tailored to the students. In other words, International Trade and 
Logistics  Department  aims  to  produce  international  trade  and  logistics  specialists  through 
theoretical, operation  oriented,  and  contemporary  programs  and with  the  participation of 
eminent scholars who are specialized in International Trade and Logistics. 

Department of Political Science and International Relations 
The  mission  of  the  Department  of  Political  Science  and  International  Relations  at  Paragon 
International  University  is  to  educate  students  about  the  theories  and  issues  in  current 
international affairs, so that they can analyze, comprehend, and actively be a part of those 
who shape the direction and betterment of the world community. In addition to these core 
skills,  students  of  IR  department  shall  also  acquire  complimentary  and  valuable  skills  in 
interpersonal  and  cross-cultural  communication,  critical  thinking  analyses  and  leadership 
potentials.  

Graduates of the Political Science and International Relations program suitable candidates for 
the pursuit of careers in diplomatic corps, foreign affairs ministries, and international affairs 
offices in governmental and non-governmental organizations. 

THE FACULTY OF ENGINEERING 

The  Faculty  of  Engineering  at  Paragon  International  University  concerns  itself  with  the 
application of engineering principles to a number of fields. One area of particular focus is the 
design and construction of buildings and other structures, which is fully covered by the four 
programs  Architectural  Engineering,  Architecture,  Civil  Engineering,  and  Constructions 
Management.  Its  fifth  program,  Industrial  Engineering,  focuses  on  the  optimization  of 
complex processes and systems, especially in a manufacturing context.  

Department of Architectural Engineering 
The  field  of  architectural  engineering  blends  the  critical  elements  of  architecture  and  civil 
engineering, creating a disciplinary area for those who participate actively in both the design 
and  construction  of  buildings.  The  Undergraduate  Architectural  Engineering  Program  is 
designed to provide students the necessary expertise to be full participants in the design and 
building of safe, efficient, sustainable structures.  

The program connects theory and hands-on applications. Through a combination of lecture 
and laboratory courses, students acquire strong skills in mathematics, science, construction 
materials, methods as well as building information modeling.  Successful completion of the 
program results in the award of the degree Bachelor of Science in Architectural Engineering. 

Department of Architecture 
The field of Architecture is principally concerned with designing the facilities that are essential 
for  humans’  welfare,  such  as  buildings  in  which  we  live  and  work.  The  mission  of  the 
Department  of  Architecture  is  to  prepare  graduates  to  enter  the  professional  practice  of 
architecture and to serve Cambodia and the ASEAN region. 

The  undergraduate  program 
in  Architecture  stresses  the  fundamentals  of  building 
technology, structural and mechanical systems, urban and architectural design, architectural 
theory and history, and professional ethics and responsibility. Graduates of the program are 
awarded of the degree Bachelor of Arts in Architecture. 

Department of Civil Engineering 
Civil  engineering  as  a  discipline  deals  with  the  design,  construction,  and  maintenance  of 
facilities and structures essential for humans’ welfare, such as buildings, roads, bridges, and 
dams.  The  mission  of  the  Civil  Engineering  Department  is  to  provide  a  substantial  and 
contemporary  civil  engineering  education.  Graduates  of  the  program  earn  a  Bachelor  of 
Science in Civil Engineering, and are employable by local, national, and international firms. 
They  also  enjoy  the  solid  educational  foundation  necessary  for  the  pursuit  of  advanced 
degrees. 

Department of Construction Management 
The four-year program in Construction Management leads to the Bachelor of Science degree. 
Major emphasis is placed on organizing and managing large-scale construction projects. The 
construction manager is a critical member of the building team. In order to move the project 
from  planning  and  design  to  actual  construction  requires  professional-level  knowledge  of 
techniques, materials, equipment, job planning and cost control. Graduates of this program 
are well prepared to help meet the modern needs of the construction industry in Cambodia. 

Department of Industrial Engineering 
Industrial  Engineering  aims  to  optimize  complex  processes  and  complex  systems.  The 
Industrial  engineers’  task  is  to  reduce  excessive  usage  of  time,  material  and  financial 
resources such as money, person-hours, machine time, energy and others so to maximize the 
generated  value.  They  engineer  processes  and  systems  in  order  to  improve  quality  and 
productivity. 

The  core  academic  program  at  the  Paragon  International  University  includes the  following 
disciplines:  optimization,  applied  probability  and  statistics,  design  and  management  of 
manufacturing system, systems thinking. The interdisciplinary nature of the program trains 
students  for  a  wide  range  of  planning  and  production  positions.  The  graduates  of  IE  are 
prepared  to  work  in  public  and  private  enterprises  as  well  as  in  the  service  and  financial 
sectors. 

THE FACULTY OF INFORMATION AND COMPUTER TECHNOLOGIES 

This faculty works to prepare students for successful careers in the very dynamic fields that 
comprise  Information  and  Computer  Technology.  Programs  focus  on  providing  students 
valuable hands-on experiences in areas ranging from software and system design to wide-
ranging informational applications using state-of-the-art technologies. 

Department of Computer Science 
The  Computer  Science  curriculum  is  designed  to  provide  students  with  the  technical 
knowledge and skills necessary to manage the full spectrum of issues presented by the field. 
These  include  specifying,  evaluating,  and  managing  computer  systems;  providing  technical 
guidance in areas ranging from data processing to tactical embedded systems; analyzing and 
designing methodologies appropriate for range of hardware, software, and firmware issues. 
The curriculum also provides for concrete experience in computing practices — the skills and 
ways  of  thinking  that  mark  a  computing  professional.  These  include  programming, 
engineering  of  systems,  modeling,  and  innovating.  We  offer  a  unique  course  called 
Technology,  Innovation,  and  Leadership  that  teaches  the  practices  and  discipline  of 
innovation. 

Department of Digital Arts and Design 
The  Department  of  Digital  Arts  and  Design  strives  to  promote  visual  literacy,  and  the 
production  of  visual  language  to  communicate  messages  through  illustration,  typography, 
photography, advertising, computer graphics, packaging, and contemporary media. Students 
are  encouraged  to  utilize  and  experiment  with  contemporary  production  technologies  in 
order  to  gain  the  practical  experience  necessary  to  meet  the  needs  of  local  and  regional 
employers. 

Department of Management of Information Systems 
Information  and  its  technological  applications  are  among  the  prerequisites  for  a  country's 
development. Computers, being one of the technological applications, enhance competition 
in all sectors. On the other hand, interdisciplinary approaches and studies are becoming more 
and  more  widespread  in  the  world.  As  a  result,  the  parties  producing  and/or  using  these 
systems and approaches need employees educated on this subject. 

The Department of Management of Information Systems has been established to fulfill these 
needs. This program integrates management and computer science disciplines leading to the 
Bachelor of Science Degree.  

THE FACULTY OF ARTS, HUMANITIES AND LANGUAGES 

The Faculty of Arts, Humanities and Languages at Paragon International University supports 
the university’s educational mission through responsibility for delivering critical elements of 
the first-year curriculum and other courses utilized by undergraduate programs, as well as the 
curriculum development and delivery of the pre-college English program. 

English Language and Writing Instruction 
This faculty group is responsible developing and teaching the first-year writing curriculum, for 
assessing  standards  for  English  proficiency  and  placement  for  entering  students,  and  for 
advanced  writing  and  communications  courses  needed  by  the  various  programs.  It  is  also 
responsible for developing English tutoring/assistance strategies for the undergraduates. 

English Preparatory School 
The goal of the English Preparatory School is to increase of the quantity of applicants eligible 
for  Paragon  International  University’s  English-only  undergraduate  programs,  as  well  as 
increasing the overall English capability of entering students. English language is the medium 
of  instruction  and  examinations  at  Paragon  International  University.  In  this  manner,  the 



 
university seeks to maximize both the success of individual students, as well as the overall 
student retention-rate. 

Foreign Language Instruction 
The  Faculty  of  Arts,  Humanities  and  Languages  provide  support  for  foreign  language 
instruction, which is defined as the study of languages other than Khmer and English by non-
native speakers.  

Khmer Arts, Culture, and History Instruction 
The Faculty of Arts, Humanities and Languages supports Khmer Studies instruction both in 
required foundations year courses and more advanced courses for particular majors. 

THE FACULTY OF MATHEMATICS AND SCIENCES 

The Faculty of Mathematics and Sciences is responsible for undergraduate mathematics and 
science courses. Most of the mathematics instruction is used for meeting requirements of the 
Foundations  curriculum.  However,  the  faculty  also  delivers  advanced  mathematics  and 
statistics courses. In the sciences, the faculty currently offers multiple terms of physics and a 
single term of chemistry. 

UNIVERSITY SERVICES 

ACADEMIC ADVISING 

All current students are assigned an academic advisor based upon their chosen majors. Most 
often, this advisor will be the head of the department that runs the academic program. This 
academic advisor is the student’s primary source of accurate and timely information about 
institutional  policies,  procedures,  and  university  resources.  The  advisor  maintains  student 
files monitoring their progress toward graduation.  

Against  this  backdrop,  the  advisor  suggests  courses  and  must  approve  his/her  advisee’s 
course schedules each term. It is important that students consult with their advisor prior to 
the course registration period for the new semester. To be of full value, the advising process 
requires the thoughtful participation of the student 

Although  academic  advisors  assist  with  planning  student  progression,  students  are 
responsible  for  fulfilling  the  requirements  for  graduation,  including  earning  the  minimum 
number of required course credits, removing incomplete grades (I), repairing an unacceptably 
low CGPA, submitting appropriate petitions, and taking/passing the exit exam in their major 
for graduating students. 

OFFICE OF INFORMATION SYSTEMS 

The Office of Information Systems, located on the lobby floor, provides all IT related services 
to faculty, students, and staff. 

Paragon International University userID 
All accepted students should receive their userID and password on or before orientation. This ID is 
used for logging into classroom and registration systems, email, and other online purposes. Returning 

students continue to use their originally assigned userIDs and passwords. If you have forgotten your 
userID and/or password, you may reset it by visiting Office of Information Systems. 

Internet Access 
All students can enjoy free internet via Wi-Fi inside the campus area. 

Email 
The  university  provides  all  students  with  an  email  address  which  should  be  used  for  all  formal 
communication between the students, academics and staff. Your Paragon International email address 
is  based  on  your  Paragon  International  userID:  userID@paragoniu.edu.kh.  This  email  address  is  a 
Google  Gmail  account.  You  may  check  your  email  through  the  Paragon  International  University 
interface or on the internet using any email application with Gmail support. 

in 

•  Go to the Paragon International University sign-in page at https://auth.paragoniu.edu.kh and 
dashboard 
and 
sign 
(https://auth.paragoniu.edu.kh/my_dashboard),  click  on  Email,  which  will  bring  you to  the 
Gmail 
account. 
(https://mail.google.com/a/paragoniu.edu.kh/) 

International 

password. 

University 

Paragon 

userID 

using 

From 

page 

your 

your 

the 

for 

•  You can also access your mail from outside of the Paragon International University system as 
follow.  On  your  computer,  go  to  gmail.com.  Enter  userID@paragoniu.edu.kh  and  your 
password. This will bring to the same web page as the above step. 

All students should also download and install the official Gmail application to their smart phone so as 
to ensure they receive important notifications from the university.  

OFFICE OF FINANCE 

The  Office  of  Finance  provides  a  variety  of  services  for  students  at  Paragon  International 
University. Students who need to pay their tuition fees or have problems/concerns related to 
fees and payments are invited to contact the Finance Office. Located on the first floor. 

OFFICE OF THE REGISTRAR 

The  Office  of  the  Registrar  provides  a  variety  of  services,  including  enrollment  services, 
transcript  requests,  certificate  requests,  ID  cards,  and  parking  permits.  It  also  houses  the 
bookstore where students can buy their textbooks. 

The Office of the Registrar is also the coordinating office for other student registration-related 
issues, including request for change of major, academic suspension, and withdrawal.  

Students are considered to be formally registered at Paragon International University only if 
they have paid the annual registration fee, even if they are on academic leave/suspension for 
one semester a full academic year. Failure to do so will result in withdrawal of their name 
from the Registrar’s student list and revocation of their scholarship (if any). 

Paragon International University ID Cards 
The Office of the Registrar distributes the student ID cards. It serves as your student identification 
(such as during exams), library card, and building access card at the security turnstiles. ID cards are 
not transferable. A student may not allow any other person to use his/her ID card for any purpose. 
Any misuse of your ID card regarding access control may result in violation of the Student Code of 
Conduct. Your first ID card is free, but replacing a lost ID card requires the payment of a fee. Anyone 
finding a lost card should please return it to the Office of the Registrar. 

Transcripts and other Official Documents 
All official certifications with regard to the academic performance or status of a student or former 
student of university such as transcript, certification letter are prepared and issued by the Office of 



 
 
the Registrar. Transcripts and other official documents will not be issued to the students who have a 
debt owed to the university. 

Transcripts and other official documents are issued to students upon request from the students. For 
a fee, students can obtain copies of Foundation Year Certificates, official transcripts, and other official 
documents (except diplomas). 

Parking Permits  
Paragon International University has a parking area for students and staff on a first come first served 
basis. Cars parked on campus must properly display a valid parking permit. Semester based parking 
permits can be purchased from Parking Management (in the parking area). All two-wheeled vehicles 
may pay the daily parking fee directly to the parking officers. Paragon International University is not 
responsible for any vehicle parked on or around campus. 

OFFICE OF STUDENT SERVICES 

The Office of Student Services is located in room 202. Its staff are ready to help students in a 
wide variety of ways. 

Academic Support Unit (ASU) 
The mission of the Academic Support Unit is to provide all Paragon International University students 
access  to  a  variety  of  academic  skill-building  opportunities  that  will  assist  them  in  their  pursuit  of 
academic  excellence  in  a  format  that  accommodates  various  learning  preferences  and  schedules. 
Academic  support  services  include  counselling,  tutoring,  building  study  skills,  tracking  student 
academic progress, assessment and advising. 

The  primary  functions  of  the  Academic  Support  Unit  are  to  foster  a  successful  transition  to  the 
university  environment  by  students  in  their  initial  semesters,  foster 
students’ engagement with faculty advisors/mentors at critical points, 
and promote timely graduation.  

Academic Support Unit assists students with developing their student 
skills, 
including:  building  a  core  schedule,  engaging  with  the 
curriculum, managing time, improving academic performance, making 
new friends, building co-curricular connections, finding your place at 
Paragon International University, managing a personally stressful time 
and experiencing our diverse community. 

Students  may  visit  the  Student  Services  Office  to  learn  more  about  the  Peer-Tutoring  Program, 
Counselling Services  (individual counselling on career or personal concerns)  and Academic Success 
Workshops. 

Career Center 
The  Career  Center  strives  to  provide  the  highest  quality  comprehensive 
career  services  to  all matriculated  undergraduate  students  and  alumni  of 
Paragon  International  University.  The  Career  Center  functions  as  a  vital 
component in the total educational experience of students, primarily in the 
development and implementation of career and educational plans. Career 
Services  fosters  partnerships  with  employers,  alumni,  faculty,  staff, 
administrators, and the greater community to increase their participation in 
providing opportunities for the career development of students. 

Our core services include: 

•  Career  Planning  &  Counseling  -  The  Career  Center  provides  counselling,  workshops  and 
resources to support career planning, including help with choosing a major; resume guidance; 
career and graduate school advice; and much more. 



 
• 

•  Resume Resources - A winning resume can make the difference in getting that all-important 
first interview. Paragon International University Career Center helps students prepare their 
Resumes in the most appropriate way to apply for a job, internships or graduate studies. 
Interview Preparation - We offer workshops on how to interview, invite employers to speak 
on the topic, and offer mock interviews to help you on your next interview. 
Jobs  &  Internships  –  The  Career  Center  helps  students  to  determine  which  opportunities 
match  their  interests  and  goals  by  reviewing  job  descriptions.  In  order  to  expand  their 
potentials, Career Canter helps them to participate internship programs or summer jobs. 
•  Career Fairs & Events - Finding a job or an internship means making connections. Our Center 
schedules numerous events throughout the year that bring employers from companies, non-
profit organizations, government agencies and more to campus.  

• 

New Student Orientation 
All  new  first-year  students,  as  well  as  transfer  students  with  freshmen  status,  are  required  to 
participate in new student orientation before they not allowed to register for classes. 

STUDY ROOMS  

Paragon International University has study rooms for group study and self-study. Low-level noise in 
group study is tolerated. Silence is expected while studying in the self-study rooms. When leaving a 
study room, make sure the door is closed, and lights and air con are turned off (if you are the last one 
to  leave).  Additionally,  students  may  also  reserve  an  unused  classroom  for  group  study  purposes. 
These rooms must be booked in advance. Students may visit the Office of Student Services to make a 
reservation. 

UNIVERSITY LIBRARY 

The  Paragon  International  University  Library,  located  in  the  first  floor,  houses  a  large 
collection of books and other sources and has access to a vast number of e-journals, online 
images, letters, and other primary sources. The entire collection is available for on-campus 
use  by  all  registered  students.  Circulating  materials  may  be  borrowed  from  the  library  by 
students  in  good  standing  by  showing  their  student  ID  card.  The  library  has  a  number  of 
computers for student use, and students may print and copy documents for a small fee per 
page. Lockers are also available for a small fee to store books, etc. for the day. The library’s 
normal  hours  of  operation  are  Monday  through  Saturday,  8:00  am  –  5:00  pm.  For  more 
information, please visit https://library.paragoniu.edu.kh/. 

UNIVERSITY SECURITY  

Campus security personnel help ensure the safety of persons and their belongings while on 
campus. Help our security team help you by 

•  showing your Paragon International Student ID card when asked; 
•  following any instructions given by security; 
•  immediately report all crime or unusual activities to security; 
•  not leaving backpacks, purses, other valuables unattended; 



 
 
 
 
 
CAMPUS LIFE 

At  Paragon  International  University,  students  have  the  opportunity  and  freedom  to  be 
involved  in  numerous activities,  pursuing their  interests  and  developing  relationships  with 
their  classmates,  faculty,  and  staff  as  well  as  other  members  of  the  campus  community. 
Students are encouraged to seek out such opportunities that complement and enhance their 
academic  pursuits.  These  co-curricular opportunities  connect  classroom learning to  out of 
classroom  experiences,  promote  growth  and  development,  and  facilitate  greater 
involvement with the community at large. 

Invited Speakers, Workshops, and Symposia 

Outside  of  the  classroom,  students  can  still  participate  in  many  intellectually  stimulating 
events  and  activities.  Every  year  Paragon  International  University  hosts  a  number  of 
workshops,  public  lectures,  symposia,  and  sharing  sessions  by  successful  professionals  or 
inspirational  people.  Students  can  keep  apprised  of  important  and  interesting  upcoming 
events at https://www.paragoniu.edu.kh/news-events. 

Student Excursions 

Spending too much time in at home or on campus? Try taking a student trip! Stay close and visit a local 
business or participate in study trip to Angkor Wat. Why not really stretch your wings and travel to 
the United States, Europe, Asia, or other destinations around the world? Some study trips are designed 
to be integrated with particular coursework, while others are just great general learning experiences 
and a lot of fun. Contact Student Services for information on upcoming excursions. 

Social Events and Functions 

Supported by the Office of Student Services, there are a number of social events and other 
functions  every  year.  Often,  these  are  organized  by  recognized  student  clubs  or  through 
student initiatives. Regular events include the annual New Year’s Party, Khmer New Year’s 
Party, and the Student Bonding weekend. Join in and help plan the next event! 

Student Clubs & Cultural Activities Center 

Paragon International University recognizes that organized student groups are a valuable part 
of the student educational environment. Student clubs further the University’s educational 
mission. They are responsible for making positive contributions to the primary educational 
mission of the University and are expected to encourage intellectual and social development 
of members. 

Recognition provides official identification for an affiliated group, use of designated University 
facilities and services, and the coordination and communication of the group’s activities to 
the campus community. Recognition does not imply University endorsement of the purposes 
of an organization, nor does the University assume sponsorship of, or responsibility for, any 
of the activities of the group on or off the property of the University. Students who want to 
join  a  club  or  establish  a  new  one  should  contact  the  Office  of  Student  Services  for  more 
information. 

Current clubs include: 

•  Aikido Club 
•  English Movie Club 



 
•  Football Club 
•  Table Tennis Club 
•  Tae Kwon Do Club 
•  Traditional Khmer Dancing and Drama Club 
•  Paragon International Youth Club (PIYC) 

Student Council 

Student Council is a representative structure through which Paragon 
International University students can become involved in the affairs 
of the school, working in partnership with university administration, 
faculty,  and  staff.  The  main  role  of  the  Council  as  set  out  in  the 
Constitution  and  By-Law  is  “to  promote  the  interests  of  the 
University  and  the  involvement  of  students  in  the  affairs  of  the 
school, in co-operation with the Board, Instructors and Staff”. 

The  functions  and  activities  of  Student  Council  is  to  promote  the 
development of Paragon International University so as to support the aims and welfare of its 
students. In planning and undertaking activities during the course of the academic year, the 
Council: 

•  works closely with University administration, faculty, and staff 
•  consults regularly with students of the university 
• 

involve as many students as possible in the activities of the Council 

Student Ambassadors 

Student Ambassadors are current students who act as a link between the university and the 
outside community. They use their own experiences to spark people’s 
interest in university life and give them an idea of what it is like to be a 
student at Paragon International University. The program also provides 
the Student Ambassador with an excellent opportunity to gain valuable 
work experience - improving skills such as communication, teamwork 
and  working  with  different  age  groups.  The  Ambassador  will  be 
primarily  working  with  the  Office  of  Student  Services  and  the 
Marketing  Office  in  a  range  of  Paragon  International  activities  and 
community events.   

Student Lounge 

The student lounge is located on the fifth floor and provides students with a comfortable to 
relax between classes. Stop by, enjoy a game of table tennis, or just relax in a comfortable 
chair. 

Food and Shopping 

Located on the lobby floor, the T-Café offers a wide assortment of hot and cold dishes, drinks, 
cakes and deserts. The canteen also offers sandwiches and cold cuts with bread at a fixed 
price  and  sometimes  soup.  With  a  focus  on  fresh  ingredients,  nutritional  awareness  and 
reasonable prices, the canteen is a popular place to meet for students, faculty, and staff alike. 



 
 
Additionally, there are a number of food vendors on the street just outside the school. TK 
Avenue is in easy walking distance, where there are many shops, stores, coffee houses, and 
restaurants. 



 
 
 
ACADEMIC REGULATIONS

I.  DEFINITIONS AND ABBREVIATIONS 

academic year 
cumulative grade point average 
grade point average 

AY   
CGPA 
GPA 
MoEYS  Ministry of Education and Youth Sports 
VR   

vice rector (for) 

II.  THE ACADEMIC YEAR 

The academic year runs from the first day of October through the last day of September. 
A particular academic year is usually designated by the two calendar years that it overlaps 
– for example, academic year 2017-2018, or more succinctly AY 2017-18. 

Regular Semesters and the Summer Term 

The academic year consists of two semesters (and a summer term). All regular instruction is 
scheduled during these two semesters. The first semester typically runs from late October 
through  the  end  of  February,  while  the  second  semester  typically  runs  from  mid-March 
through mid-July. In principle, each semester runs for 15 weeks, but in practice they are often 
scheduled for more due to national holidays. The summer term typically runs from late July 
through mid-September. 

Academic Calendar 

The official University Academic Calendar can be found on the university website. Please visit 
https://www.paragoniu.edu.kh/calendar/academic-calendar. 

Midterm Examinations 

On or about the seventh week of classes, the university schedules a one-week long midterm 
exam period. Unlike the final exam period (see below), instructors are not in general required 
to give examinations during this time – they may opt for the week before, the week after, or 
may even not have a midterm exam at all. (Of course, in the case of no midterm, this must be 
properly  reflected  in  the  course  syllabus.)  The  midterm  period  is  designated  in  order  to 
facilitate  giving  midterms  in  courses  with  a  large  number  of  student  per  section.  For  such 
courses,  the  university  will  schedule  special  times  and  rooms  (and  proctors/invigilators,  if 
necessary). Note that, due to space limitations, it may be necessary to reschedule or move 
classes for other courses in order to accommodate these midterm exams. 

Exam Prep Days 

Examination preparation days are set aside each semester between the last day of classes and 
the beginning of the final exam period to provide students with time to prepare for their finals. 
This is typically a period of one week (Final Exams Prep Week), and no examinations may be 
given, nor may any assignments or projects be due, during this time. (All course assignments 
must be due on or before the last regular day of classes.) Instructors may use exam prep days 
to conduct review classes and may collect late assignments /projects assigned and due before 
the last day of regular classes. 

Final Examination Schedule 

Following  the  Exam  Prep  Days,  the  university  schedules  at  least  one  week  for  final 
examinations. The scheduled day, time, and place is set by and can only be modified by the 
Office of Academic Affairs. Final exams run for two full hours. Students cannot be compelled 
to take more than two final exams in a twenty-four-hour period. Any student scheduled for 


 
 
more  than  two  exams  in  such  a  period  should  immediately  consult  with  their  academic 
adviser. 

Students who miss a final examination must submit an application to retake exam within two 
working days, together with the relevant documents to the Office of Academic Affairs. If the 
application is approved, the instructor will prepare a make-up examination for the student. 

III. MINIMUM UNDERGRADUATE ADMISSION REQUIREMENTS 

Undergraduate admissions at Paragon International University are administered by the Office of 
the Registrar. Admitted students are registered with the Ministry of Education and Youth Sports 
(MoEYS) and, as such, they must satisfy any and all requirements imposed by MoEYS. 

To gain admission to an undergraduate program at Paragon International University, all applicants 
must meet the following minimum requirements: 

Completion of Secondary School 

Applicants must have completed primary and secondary school instruction culminating in the 
issuance of either (i) a high school diploma from an institution approved by MoEYS, or (ii) an 
approved  high  school  equivalency  certificate  approved  by MoEYS.  For applicants  educated 
within Cambodia, sufficient evidence of this shall consist of their diploma and documentation 
of  a  passing  grade  on  the  Cambodian  National  Grade  12  Examination.  For  international 
students, a certified diploma is generally sufficient, but approval by Cambodian Authorities 
may be required for admissions purposes. Please consult with the Office of the Registrar for 
details. 

English Proficiency 

To  be  successful  at  Paragon  International  University,  students  need  to  begin  their 
undergraduate work with a high level of English proficiency in speaking, reading and writing.  

English proficiency can be demonstrated in a number of ways: 

•  a minimum TOEFL IBT score of 60 or higher; 
•  a minimum IELTS score of 5.5 or higher; 
•  GEP Level 12 Certificate from the Australian Center for Education (in Cambodia); 
• 

taking and passing the English Proficiency Test administered by Paragon International 
University; 

•  other evidence as may be approved by Paragon International University. 

Students unable to meet the English proficiency requirement may choose to enroll in Paragon 
International  University’s  English  Preparatory  School  (EPS).  Students  who  successfully 
complete EPS are considered to have attained the required level of fluency to begin university 
studies. 

Placement Examinations 

In  order  to  place  first-year  students  in  the  appropriate  English  and  math  courses,  the 
university has adopted a system of placement tests. All students must take the university’s 
English  placement  test,  except  those  who  might  be  exempted  on  the  basis  of  their 
TOEFL/IELTS or other reason determined by the university. Depending on their undergraduate 
program, most students are similarly required to take a mathematics placement exam. 

Entrance Examination 

Undergraduate students become registered with MoEYS by passing an entrance examination. 
These  examinations  are  given  in  the  early  weeks  of  semester  1  each  year.  Admission  to 
is  made  conditionally  upon  students  passing  their  entrance 
undergraduate  studies 
examinations. Please see the Office of the Registrar for details. 



 
Other Admissions Requirements 

The  university  is  free  to  adopt  further  academic  and  administrative  requirements  for 
admission.  Meeting  the  minimum  requirements  does  not  guarantee  admission  to  the 
university nor to any particular program. Additional academic requirements must be reviewed 
and approved by the Academic Board, while additional administrative requirements must be 
reviewed and approved by the Executive Board. 

IV. COURSES AND REGISTRATION 

Course selection 

Course selection begins prior to the start of each semester (generally in October and March) 
and  extends  through  the  end  of  the  second  week  of  the  semester,  as  per  part  C  below. 
Students are responsible for consulting with their academic advisors prior to making course 
selections in the online registrations system, and working with their academic advisors to gain 
final approval for their schedules. 

Availability of Required Courses 

The university takes affirmative steps to ensure that students are  able to register for their 
required  courses.  As such,  registration  priority  is  given  to  students  who  are  registering  for 
courses in their primary degree program. Although the University encourages the exploration 
of  other  disciplines,  access  to  courses  outside  a  student's  primary  program  is  on  a  space-
available basis and is not guaranteed. 

Change in Schedule (Add/Drop)  

Undergraduate  students  at  Paragon  International  University  may  drop  a  course  in 
consultation with and the approval of their academic advisor on or before the appropriate 
deadline as published in the Official University Calendar. Should such a deadline not appear in 
the calendar, then registration shall be open for a period of two weeks, ending at 5 pm on the 
fourteenth day of the semester. If a course is dropped before the deadline, then it will not 
appear  on  the  student’s  academic  record.  After  the  deadline,  dropping  a  course  requires 
having your advisor’s permission and filing a Course Withdrawal Form. (For such courses, the 
student will receive a grade of “W” – see section V, part H of this document.) 

The Late Add Form is used for adding a course or switching sections after the established add 
period and during the semester in which the course is offered. Undergraduate students who 
add a course or switch a section after the established add period are required to obtain the 
permission of their academic advisor and their faculty dean (or the provost). Additional fees 
may be charged for each late add.  

Late-enrolled  students  are  responsible  for  all  previous  material  and  assignments.  Late-
enrolled students should not expect the instructor to go over all previous material with them. 
Such students are encouraged to obtain copies of class notes, etc. from other students in the 
course.  Late-enrolled  students may  be  exempted  from  previous  attendance  records  at  the 
discretion of the department head. 

Each  student  is  responsible  for  obtaining  his/her  academic  advisor’s  approval  for  his/her 
course schedules prior to the end of the add/drop period. After the deadline of the add/drop 
period, the online course registration system is disabled. Students requiring late access to the 
online  system will  be  charged  a  penalty,  the  amount  of  which  escalates  with  each  passing 
week.  Students  must  first  pay  the  penalty  fee  and  bring  the  payment  slip  to  Office  of  the 
Academic Affairs to request for the enabling of the course registration system. 

Foreign Language Course Credits 

A  foreign  language  course  is  any  course  whose  principle  purpose  is to  study  any  language 
other than English. A maximum of twelve (12) credits of foreign language electives may be 
included  in  the  tally  of  credits  required  for  graduation.  Students  should  consult  with  their 



 
advisor before selecting a foreign language course to ensure that they are meeting the course 
and credit requirements for graduation. 

Conduct of Classes 

Students are expected to attend all scheduled classes unless the instructor explicitly informs 
the class that other ways of doing the work are acceptable. All classes will be held at their 
scheduled hour on days immediately before and after all holidays and recesses. Both faculty 
and students are expected to be present. 

Technology affords many students access to portable devices including cell phones, tablets, 
and laptops. It is expected that students will respect the wishes of faculty with regard to the 
use of electronic devices within the academic environment. 

If  an  instructor  is  late  for  class,  students  will  check  their  email  for  a  message  from  the 
instructor. If there is such an email and it indicates a late start time, students may leave and 
return at that time. In the absence of such an email, students shall wait for a minimum of 15 
minutes after the normal time for starting the class before leaving. 

Cancellation of Classes 

The rector of the university may cancel classes due to weather conditions or other campus 
emergencies.  Paragon  International  University  will  notify  students,  faculty,  and  staff  about 
school cancellations or delays via SMS, e-mail or website announcements. 

Tardy 

Three (3) tardy marks are equivalent to one (1) absence.  

Absences from Class 

All students are expected to attend classes throughout the semester. Students are permitted 
to miss up to 10% of their total class hours and still receive a perfect 100 points for attendance. 
Beyond this, students lose 5 points per additional percentage point above 10% missed. In any 
case,  students  are  advised  not  to  miss  classes  and  to  use  the  permitted  10%  to  handle 
unforeseen circumstances 

Students are responsible for all material and information covered in classes missed. Students 
should contact the head of their department if they expect to be absent for a period of a week 
or more. All students not physically present shall be recorded as absent by the instructor. 

Excused Absences 

Members of student organizations and other authorized groups are permitted to be absent 
from classes to participate in authorized contests and presentations, either at home or out of 
town, provided the following conditions are met: 

•  All work missed must be made up to the satisfaction of the instructor(s) concerned; 
•  Unless specifically authorized by the rector or provost, no trip shall involve an absence 

of more than two days, excluding days when classes are not scheduled; 

•  Each student will obtain an absence authorization signed by the director or sponsor of 
the  organization  involved  and  by  VR  Student  Affairs.  The  student  will  present  this 
authorization to the instructor. This is not an excuse for work missed. 

•  Events involving missing more than 6 days shall additionally require the permission of 

VR Academic Affairs. 

Under  exceptional  circumstances,  absences  may  be  excused  by  the  university.  Among  the 
reasons absences are considered excused by the university are the following: 

•  Participation in university sponsored activity at the request of university authorities. 
•  Death or major illness in a student’s immediate family. 
•  Participation  in  legal  proceedings  or  administrative  procedures  that  require  a 

student’s presence. 



 
• 

Illness that is too severe or contagious for the student to attend class. 

Excused students will be recorded as absent by the instructor. VR Academic Affairs may decide 
to convert an absence to excused upon request from the head of department. In such cases, 
it  is  student’s  responsibility  for  providing  satisfactory  evidence  to  the  university  to 
substantiate the reason for absence. 

Course Attendance and Enrollment 

A student is responsible for paying of university tuition, fees, and other charges by the stated 
payment deadline. The purpose of this section is to detail the specific process used to resolve 
any outstanding student account balance. 

Students will be held financially and academically accountable for course(s) that they attend 
or  for  which  they  are  enrolled.  Enrollment  in  a  course  which  is  not  actively  taken,  or 
(contrarily) the taking of a course for which enrollment has not been completed, will result in 
the assignment of a grade and responsibility for applicable tuition charges (unless a specific 
exception has been made by the rector). 

Students  who  fail  to  resolve  their  enrollment  and  balances  will  be  prohibited  from  using 
university academic and administrative services. The services include, but are not limited to, 
computing  facilities,  library  services,  housing,  cafeteria,  career  center  services,  degree 
verification and the release of academic transcripts for the upcoming semester. 

Timing of Undergraduate Course Meetings 

The normal times for undergraduate courses are Monday through Friday from 8:00 a.m. to 
11:50 a.m. and from 1:00 p.m. to 4:50 p.m. Although not the norm, the administration can 
schedule classes  at  other times as well, especially from Monday through Friday during the 
5:00  p.m.  to  9:00  p.m.  time  period,  as  well  as  on  Saturday  from  8:00  a.m.  to  4:50  p.m.  
Generally, undergraduate classes, exams, and other academic activities (including extra help 
sessions,  rehearsals, make-up  exams,  etc.)  are  not  scheduled  on weekdays  between  12:00 
p.m.  and  12:50  p.m.  and  between  5:00  p.m.  and  5:50  p.m.,  but  under  exceptional 
circumstances, some can also be scheduled during these hours. 

V.  UNDERGRADUATE GRADE POLICIES 

Assigning Grades 

Final grades are awarded to each student, in each course scheduled, at the end of each term. 
All students taking a course at Paragon International University must be assigned grades. The 
Office of the Registrar will query instructors who do not assign a grade to a student. Copies of 
the query regarding the lack of grade will be sent to the student’s department head and to 
the provost. If the instructor does not assign a letter grade or an incomplete grade within one 
week of the query, the department head/dean/provost (in that order) will be responsible for 
ensuring that a grade is assigned. 

University Letter Grades and Grade Points 

Paragon  International  University  utilizes  a  grading  scale  that consists  of  the  following  nine 
levels (listed from highest to lowest): AA, BA, BB, CB, CC, DC, DD, and F. 
 
Letter 
Grade 

Grade 
Points 

Meaning 

AA 

BA 

BB 

CB 

CC 

DC 

DD 

F 

NP 

GP 

IC 

W 

T 

P / NC 

4.0 

3.5 

3.0 

2.5 

2.0 

1.5 

1.0 

0.0 

0.0 

** 

** 

** 

** 

** 

Outstanding Work – among the very best students in the course 

Excellent Work 

Very Good Work 

Good Work 

Satisfactory Work – Minimum Unconditional Passing Grade 

High Conditional Pass (cannot ever be used to satisfy prerequisite 
requirement unless approved by academic advisor) 
Low Conditional Pass (cannot ever be used to satisfy prerequisite 
requirement unless approved by VR Academic Affairs) 

Fail 

Not Present – failure due to not taking the final examination. 

Grade Pending 

Incomplete 

Withdrawal 

Transfer; credit for course work done at another institution. 

Pass (for Pass / No Credit course only) 

Note: The symbol ** indicates a non-factorable grade – i.e., a grade that does not affect a 

student’s grade point average (GPA). 

Method of Assigning Grades 

Paragon  International  University  utilizes  a  weighted  scoring  system  that  results  in  each 
student receiving in each course an overall score on a 100-point scale. Based on a statistical 
analysis  of  these  scores  (detailed  below),  initial  suggested  letter  grades  are  assigned. 
Instructors then review these grade assignments and may submit changes for approval of the 
department head and of VR Academic Affairs. 

Computing overall scores 

In their syllabus and in the online classroom system, instructors define a number of grading 
categories across which student performance will be assessed. For each category, a weight is 
assigned by the instructor in the form of a percentage. A common set of grading categories 
and weights used at Paragon International University are: 

• 
• 
• 
• 
• 

10% – attendance 
15% – assignments 
15% – portfolio / lab / problem solving 
20% – midterm examination 
40% – final examination 

Note that the sum of the weights must equal 100%.  

Over  the  term,  the  instructor  assigns/creates  a  numerical  score  for  each  student  in  each 
grading category. These scores may be the sum of the scores on a number of assessments 
 
(such as is normally the case with assignments) or based on a single assessment (such as final 
examination). Overall scores are computed by the online classroom system using: 

𝑛

𝑜𝑣𝑒𝑟𝑎𝑙𝑙 𝑠𝑐𝑜𝑟𝑒 = 100 ∙ ∑ 𝑤𝑖 (

𝑖=1

𝑠𝑖
𝑆𝑖

)

 , 

where 

𝑠𝑖 is the student’s score in grading category 𝑖; 
𝑆𝑖 is the maximum possible score in grading category 𝑖; 
𝑤𝑖 is the weight assigned to grading category 𝑖; 
𝑛 is the number of categories. 

Whatever the exact factors and weights, all students have the right to review their scores and 
to examine both their midterm and final exams. 

Generation of letter grades 

The online  classroom  system automatically  calculates  in  all  courses  initial  letter  grades  for 
each  student.  Grading  is  done  on  a  section-by-section  basis,  unless  the  same  instructor 
teaches more than one section of the same course, in which case the students will be grouped 
together. Automatically generated initial grades are calculated based on the z-scores of the 
students’ overall scores.  For details, see Appendix A. 

Review and approval of final letter grades 

The instructor reviews the suggested letter grades and may make adjustments in the dividing 
points between letter grade categories. These are then submitted to the course department 
head for confirmation and then to VR Academic Affairs for final approval. For courses where 
the instructor graded do not meet with the complete approval of either the department head 
or VR Academic Affairs, comments are send to the instructor who in light of the comments 
again reviews the suggested letter grades. In all cases, students whose overall score is below 
30 will receive an F, and students whose overall score is 50 or above will receive at least a DD. 

Credits and Grade Points 

Cambodia’s Ministry of Education and Youth Sports (MoEYS) mandates a system that assigns 
one  credit  for  every  15  hours  of  regular  class  time  per  semester.  Factorable  grades  are 
assigned  grade  points  in  accordance  with  the  previous  table.  Credits  earned  for  a  course 
multiplied by the Grade Point Value of the grade given for that course equals the Grade Points 
for that course. For example, a three-credit course assigned a “CC” grade is awarded six grade 
points (3 credits x 2 grade points = 6 grade point for the course). Total Grade Points divided 
by Total Factorable Credits equals the Grade Point Average. 

Example: Computing GPA 

 A student's record in one semester might be: 

3 credits in History (AA) 

3 𝑐𝑟 × 4.00 𝑔𝑟𝑎𝑑𝑒 𝑝𝑜𝑖𝑛𝑡𝑠    = 12.00 𝑔𝑟𝑎𝑑𝑒 𝑝𝑜𝑖𝑛𝑡𝑠 ∙ 𝑐𝑟 

4 credits in Physics (FF) 

4 𝑐𝑟 × 0.00 𝑔𝑟𝑎𝑑𝑒 𝑝𝑜𝑖𝑛𝑡𝑠    =    0.00 𝑔𝑟𝑎𝑑𝑒 𝑝𝑜𝑖𝑛𝑡𝑠 ∙ 𝑐𝑟 

3 credits in Engineering (BA) 

3 𝑐𝑟 × 3.50 𝑔𝑟𝑎𝑑𝑒 𝑝𝑜𝑖𝑛𝑡𝑠     = 10.50 𝑔𝑟𝑎𝑑𝑒 𝑝𝑜𝑖𝑛𝑡𝑠 ∙ 𝑐𝑟 

(12.00 + 0.00 + 10.50)𝑔𝑟𝑎𝑑𝑒 𝑝𝑜𝑖𝑛𝑡𝑠 ∙ 𝑐𝑟
(3 + 4 + 3) 𝑐𝑟

=

22.50
10

𝑔𝑟𝑎𝑑𝑒 𝑝𝑜𝑖𝑛𝑡𝑠 = 2.25 𝐺𝑟𝑎𝑑𝑒 𝑃𝑜𝑖𝑛𝑡𝐴𝑣𝑒𝑟𝑎𝑔𝑒 
 
Semester and Cumulative Grade Point Averages 

Paragon International University uses the designation GPA to refer to semester grade point 
averages  (calculated  over  a  single  semester)  and  CGPA  to  refer  to  cumulative  grade  point 
averages (calculated over the student’s entire tenure at the university): 

Note: The recalculation of the CGPA is done with the appropriate adjustment for repeated 
courses.  (See  the  section  of  these  regulation  on  repeated  courses.  All  grade  point 
computations are rounded to 2-place precision.) 

Changing a Grade 

A student who believes that an assigned grade is incorrect may request in writing that the 
instructor review the final grade. The instructor shall respond in writing within 5 business days 
of  receipt of the  request with  a  letter  of  clarification.  If  the  instructor  deems that  a  grade 
change is in order, then the instructor shall submit a Change of Grade form to the registrar 
with the required signatures of approval.  

If not satisfied with the instructor’s response, the student may appeal in writing and with 5 
business  days  of  receiving  the  letter  of  clarification  to  the  Office  of  Academic  Affairs.  The 
Provost or designee will issue a final ruling within 20 business days. 

Incomplete Grades 

Paragon  International  students  are  expected  to  complete  a  course  during  the  academic 
semester in which the course was taken. However, with approval from the course instructor 
and the student’s department head, a grade of I (incomplete) may be given when a student, 
for extraordinary reasons beyond his or her control, has been unable to complete the work of 
a course, but the work completed to date is of passing quality and the grade of incomplete 
provides no undue advantage to that student over other students. 

In awarding a grade of “I”, the instructor must specify the requirements for completing the 
work and designate a default letter grade where no further work is submitted. Students must 
complete the required course work no later than the end of the following academic semester, 
or sooner if required by prior agreement. The instructor must record the permanent grade by 
the last  day of the examination period of that following semester, or Academic Affairs will 
administratively assign the default grade. 

Withdrawal/NP Grades 

Undergraduate students who wish to withdraw from a course after the  add/drop deadline 
must complete a Course Withdrawal form and must obtain their academic advisor's signature. 
The advisor will indicate whether they "recommend" or "not recommend" withdrawal from 
the course on the form, sign the petition, and deliver it to VR Academic Affairs. Upon his/her 
approval, the "W" grade will appear on the student’s academic record. No course withdrawals 
will be permitted after the sixth week of classes.  

Students  who  have  not  attended  any  classes  through  the  sixth  week  of  the  term  may  be 
dropped  from  the  course  by  VR  Academic  Affairs.  Students  who  believe  that  they  have 
extenuating circumstances that prevent their attendance must notify their academic advisor 
and relevant instructor. It is at the discretion of the instructor as to whether or not to accept 
the excuse, and permit make-up work. 

If a student fails to attend a course and does not take the final exam, they will be marked NP 
in the course. This will affect the student’s GPA and CGPA as an NP is counted as zero (0) grade 
points. 

Auditing Courses 

Auditing  allows  registered students  to  attend  a  class  without  receiving  course  credits.  The 
extent of a student's participation can be discussed with the course instructor.  
 
Any student enrolled as a full-time student may audit a course without additional charges. 
Part-time or non-degree students who choose to audit a course will be assessed a fee. 

Course Repeats 

Students may repeat courses only in which they were awarded grades of DC or below. When 
such a course is repeated, only the last grade contributes to the grade point average and total 
credit hours earned. (Please note, students who withdraw from a course and receive a “W” 
are not considered to have completed the course. As such, “W” is not treated as a final grade 
for the purposes of repeating a course.) 

Students who wish to repeat a course already passed (with DD or DC) must obtain approval 
from their academic advisor. When a student takes a course he/she has already passed, only 
the most recent set of credits will count towards graduation requirements. Department heads 
may  also  approve  a  different  course  to  meet  the  same  program  requirement  as  another 
course and treat the former as a substitute for the latter. In such a case, the student is required 
to file a Course Repeat Form. 

Special Examinations 

Students who took but failed to acquire a passing grade in a course required for graduation 
may request to take a special examination that comprehensively covers the course’s material. 
Upon attainment of a satisfactory score on the exam and with approval of the department 
head for the course, the student will be credited for a repeated course and assigned the grade 
“DD”. The university may assess a special fee for such exams. (As of this writing the current 
fee per special exam is $100 per course.) Each student is limited to taking two such special 
examinations. 

Students taking the special make-up exam must meet the following conditions: 

1.  Student has otherwise completed all degree requirements except the course(s) under 

consideration; 

2.  Student has taken the course(s) previously and failed with grade F; 
3.  Student is not currently registered in the course(s); 
4.  Student has paid the special exam fee(s) through the Finance Office; 
5.  The student has the approval of his/her department head and of the provost. 

Each Special Make-up Exam can be taken only ONCE a semester (including the summer term). 
Students who wish to take a special examination must  submit the fully completed request 
form to the Registrar's Office no later than: 

- 
- 
- 

For semester one: the first Friday of December 
For semester two: the first Friday of May 
For the summer term: the last Friday of July 

The student  shall be  given a notice regarding the examination date and  venue within four 
weeks  after  having  submitted  the  form  to  the  Registrar's  Office.  The  result(s)  will  be 
announced no later than two weeks after the exam(s). 

Re-administration of Examination 

The  university  reserves  the  right  to  re-administer  an  examination  if  it  believes  that  it  has 
reasonable evidence that the examination questions were somehow compromised before the 
exam was given. 

Academic Probation 

A  student  whose  GPA  falls  below  2.00  for  two  consecutive  semesters  may  be  placed  on 
academic probation lasting at least through the end of the following semester. At the end of 
the probationary period, the university will reevaluate the student's progress. If at that time, 
the student’s GPA and CGPA are at least 2.00, the student shall be removed from probation. 
If the student’s GPA is at least 2.00, but CGPA is below 2.00, the student shall be continued on 
 
probation for another term and re-evaluate again at the end of that term. If both the student’s 
GPA and CGPA are below 2.00, the university may consider additional academic actions, which 
may  range  from  continuing  probation  to  suspension  to  academic  withdrawal  from  the 
university.  The student may appeal such academic actions in writing to the Office of Academic 
Affairs.  

Student Internships 

Compulsory  student  internship  (as  well  as  optional  internship  arranged  by,  or  informed 
beforehand  to,  the  university)  is  recorded  in  the  student’  transcript.  A  designation  of 
“excellent”;  “good”;  “satisfactory”;  “poor”  or  “fail”  will  be  granted  based  on  the  reports 
provided by the student intern’s host. 

Students who are not required to complete an internship but wish to have it recorded on their 
transcript must submit the Internship Application Form to their Department Head at least two 
weeks prior to the commencement of their internship. 

VI. TRANSFER CREDIT EVALUATION AND ASSIGNMENT POLICY 

Credit for courses taken at another institution recognized and approved by Paragon International 
University  may  be  received  through  the  receipt  of  transfer  credit  from  other  accredited 
institutions.  Paragon  International  University  will  record  such  courses  on  its  transcript  by 
indicating where the course was taken, but without grade. Such courses will not be taken into 
account for academic actions, honors nor GPA calculations. Students may transfer a maximum of 
60 credits. To qualify for transfer credit, the student must have earned the equivalent of CC or 
higher, and the relevant department head must have approved the course. 

External Transfer Students 

External applicants applying for transfer to Paragon International University will arrange for 
submission  of  official  transcripts  and  foundations  certificate  (if  any)  to  the  Office  of  the 
Registrar as part of the admission process. The registrar will verify the official final transcripts, 
and  then  send  them  to  the  appropriate  academic  unit  responsible  for  faculty/department 
acceptance decisions. Each unit will be responsible for student's review of transfer credit and 
the establishment of transfer course credit for each individual student. 

Current Students 

Current  Paragon  International  students  taking  courses  at  other  accredited  institutions 
(colleges and universities), during either summer semesters or as part of exchange programs 
or other departmentally approved programs, or while on leave from Paragon International, 
must arrange for the submission of official final transcripts to the University Registrar's Office. 
Individual courses should be  approved by the  relevant  department head before  taking the 
course. Paragon International University does not guarantee credit for courses that were not 
approved ahead of time. 

Upon receipt, Office of the Registrar will verify these official transcripts and send a copy of the 
transcript to the appropriate academic unit responsible for that student's faculty/department 
transfer credit decisions. The official transcript will reside in the student's university academic 
folder in Enrollment Services. Each department will be responsible for its students' transfer 
credit  review  and  the  establishment  of  transfer  course  credit  for  each  individual  student. 
Should a department receive the official transcript, it must be sent immediately to Office of 
the Registrar. 

Unless part of an approved exchange program, current students are limited to a maximum of 
12  transfer  credits.  Nothing  in  this  section  shall  be  construed  as  allowing  any  student  to 
exceed the maximum number of allowable credits (60). 
 
VII.  RANK, STATUS, AND STANDING 

Rank in Class 

Undergraduates  at  Paragon  International  University  pursue  degrees  across  a  number  of 
faculties and departments. The varied nature of our students' educational experiences makes 
class rank not a meaningful way to measure achievement. 

Paragon  International  University  and  the  Office  of  the  Registrar  do  not  report  nor  record 
students'  rank  in  class,  rank  in  faculty,  nor  rank  in department.  For  those  graduate  school 
and/or employment requests that request a students' rank, they will be completed with the 
statement “Paragon International University does not report rank in class.” 

Nothing in the preceding shall be construed to preclude Paragon International University from 
giving valedictorian and salutatorian awards based all or in part on CGPA ranking. 

Full-Time Status 

Undergraduates  who  are  registered  as  full-time  students  as  of  the  10th  day  of  classes  are 
expected  to  remain  full-time  for  the  duration  of  the  semester.  Full-time  is  defined  by  a 
minimum of 12 credits and a maximum of 21 credits per semester. Permission to drop below 
the 12-credit minimum must  be  granted by VR Academic Affairs. Undergraduates who are 
registered as part-time are also subject to the above deadlines to drop or withdraw from a 
course. Dropping below 12 credits shall not in any case result in a reduction in tuition charged 
to the student. Furthermore, students are advised that dropping below the full-time load may 
jeopardize their ability to meet the six-year time limit for graduation. Students are limited to 
registering for 9 credits in the summer session unless they have the approval of their academic 
advisor. 

Class Standing 

Students  should  refer  their  department  to  determine  the  number  of  credits  required  to 
complete  their  specific  curriculum.  Students  must  achieve  passing  grades  in  order  to  earn 
credits. 

•  A freshman student becomes a sophomore after earning 26 credits. 
•  A sophomore student becomes a junior after earning 60 credits. 
•  A junior student becomes a senior after earning 94 credits. 

The designation of senior status in no way guarantees that the student will graduate by the 
end of the academic year nor by any other date. 

VIII.  GRADUATION 

Foundation Year Certificate Requirement 

All  graduating  students  must  possess  or  have  earned  a  Foundation  Year  Certificate  from 
Paragon  International  University  or  from  another  eligible  Cambodian  intuition  of  higher 
learning. 

Degree Requirements 

Students are responsible for checking to ensure that the degree requirements in place at the 
time  of  their  matriculation  have  been  met.  They  can  be  assisted  in  this  process  by  their 
department head who can provide them with an academic audit. If the degree requirements 
have been modified by the university, the student is responsible for checking to ensure that 
the modified requirements have been met. 

Cumulative GPA Requirement 

To be eligible to graduate, undergraduate students must complete all residence and course 
requirements for their program with a cumulative GPA of at least 2.00 for all courses taken. 
 
Total Credits Requirement  

A candidate for the bachelor's degree must have successfully completed a minimum of 132 
credits  of  coursework.  (On  occasion,  this  requirement  can  be  slightly  relaxed  by  academic 
board.) 

Residency Requirement 

A  candidate for  the  bachelor's  degree must  complete  at  the  university  a minimum of  four 
semesters  of  full-time  study,  or  the  equivalent  of  part-time  study,  comprising  at  least  60 
credits of coursework. 

Exit Examination 

Upon completion of all of the preceding requirements, students become eligible to take the 
university’s exit examination. Passing this examination is a requirement of the MoEYS for the 
issuance  of  a  certified  diploma.  This  examination  is  generally  administered  after  the 
completion of the second semester final examinations.  

Financial Obligations 

No student may receive a diploma until all financial obligations to the university have been 
met. 

Graduation Time Limit 

Unless  the  Office  of  Academic  Affairs  rules  otherwise,  a  student  must  complete  the 
requirements of his/her degree program within 6 (six) years of first undertaking any courses 
counted or credited towards the program requirements. 

Graduating with Honors 

Honors at graduation are determined by students’ CGPA at the time of graduation. Students 
with a CGPA of 3.00 to 3.49 are given the distinction of graduating with honors, while students 
with a CGPA of 3.50 or higher are given the distinction of graduating with high honors. 

The student  graduating with the highest CGPA at  the  annual commencement ceremony of 
Paragon International University is awarded the distinction of valedictorian. The student with 
the second highest CGPA is awarded the distinction of salutatorian. In case of CGPA tie, the 
student  with  the  highest  CGPA  computed  to  5  decimal  places  will  be  designated  the 
Valedictorian.  

IX. ACADEMIC ACTIONS 

The following regulations and procedures apply to students admitted to degree-based programs. 

Student Suspension/Required Withdrawal Policy 

University Suspension is a forced, temporary leave from the university. There are three types 
of suspension for students admitted to degree-based programs: 

•  Academic Suspension is the result of poor academic performance or violation of academic 

regulations (including academic integrity violations). 

•  Disciplinary Suspension is the result of serious personal misconduct (including violations 

of the Student Code of Conduct). 

•  Administrative Suspension is the result of failure to meet university financial obligations 

or failure to comply with health regulations. 

Suspended students may not: 

register for courses 

• 
•  attend classes 
•  use campus facilities, including athletic facilities, and the library 
•  participate in student activities 



 
•  be members of student organizations 
•  have on-campus student jobs 

Student Academic Leave 

If a student wishes to take a voluntary leave of absence from the university due to reasons 
including but not limited to: financial difficulties, illness, military duties, and/or other 
personal reasons, they may apply for academic leave. However, in order to qualify, the 
student must have already completed one semester at the university. Students may apply 
for leave of up to a total of one (1) academic year. 

If the student applies for Academic Leave before the end of the Add/Drop period, they will 
have a clean transcript with no indications of W or NP.  

If the student applies for Academic Leave after the Add/Drop Period ends but before the 
midterm exams start, there will be an indication of W for the courses on their transcript. This 
will not affect the GPA or CGPA. 

If the student applies for Academic Leave after the midterm exams, they will get NP for their 
courses. However, this may be waived at the discretion of the Provost in case of emergency 
or grave illness that would otherwise leave the student unable to complete their course 
requirements. 

Student Deferral 

Students who wish to defer before starting their first semester must write a deferral 
petition letter to be submitted to the Office of the Provost for approval. Additionally, the 
student is still obligated to pay the $500 registration fee.  

Deferred students will not take the Ministry of Education’s entrance exam. 

Transfer Credits while on Suspension or Academic Leave 

Suspended students may take courses elsewhere; however, they may receive transfer credit 
only if authorized by their department and by VR Academic Affairs. 

Appeals 

To appeal any action of this policy, the student may write to the following people: 

•  Academic Suspension – VR Academic Affairs 
•  Disciplinary Suspension – VR Student Affairs 
•  Administrative Suspension – Rector 

Returning from Suspension 

In order to return from a suspension, a student must have the following approval: 

•  Academic Leave – VR Academic Affairs 
•  Disciplinary Suspension –VR Student Affairs 
•  Administrative Suspension – Rector 

Procedure for the Appeal of Grades & Academic Actions 

In the event a student believes an assigned grade or an imposed academic action is incorrect 
or not appropriate, the student may follow the processes outlined below to seek prompt and 
equitable resolution of the matter. 

If a student believes a grade has been incorrectly assigned, the student should: 

1.  Present  the  case  to  the  faculty  member  responsible  for  the  course,  providing  all 

supporting data concerning the nature of the discrepancy. 



 
2. 

3. 

If, after a decision is rendered, the student believes that his or her concerns have not 
been adequately resolved, the student may pursue a formal appeal with VR Academic 
Affairs. To make this appeal, a student must present a written statement detailing the 
grounds for the appeal with appropriate documentation to VR Academic Affairs. This 
appeal  must  be  submitted  within  seven  (7)  days  of  receipt  of  the  faculty  member’s 
decision. VR Academic Affairs will provide a written decision, including the basis for it, 
within thirty (30) days, or as soon thereafter as practical. 

If  the  student  is  not  satisfied  with  VR  Academic  Affairs’  resolution,  the  student  may 
pursue  an  appeal  to the  rector of  Paragon  International  University. To  appeal  at  the 
faculty level, the student must present copies of all documents originally sent to the 
faculty member and VR Academic Affairs, along with a formal letter of appeal, to the 
rector. This appeal must be submitted within seven (7) days of receipt of VR Academic 
Affairs’ decision. The rector will review the appeal and will render a written decision 
(including the basis for it) within thirty days, or as soon thereafter as practical. 

If a student believes an academic action is inconsistent with the policies of the university or 
merits additional review, a student should: 

1.  Submit a formal written appeal, as specified in the initial academic action, to the rector 
of  Paragon  International  University,  requesting  review  of  the  action  including  all 
relevant materials to substantiate their case and support their concerns. 

2.  The rector or the rector’s designate will review the appeal and issue a decision and the 

basis for it within thirty days. 

X.  OTHER ACADEMIC REGULATIONS 

Change of Major 

For a student to obtain a change of major requires the approval of both the university and 
MoEYS. Per their regulations, MoEYS will not approve a change in a student’s program of study 
until and unless the student has obtained a Foundation Year Certificate. To date, MoEYS has 
looked most favorably upon applications to change programs within the university when they 
are filed soon after the completion of foundation year requirements. 

From an academic perspective, changing majors can be challenging. Students contemplating 
a change in major, even if they have not yet completed their foundations studies, should meet 
with both their current academic advisor and the department head for the program of interest 
to discuss the possibility’s advantages and disadvantages. After these meetings, students who 
want to change majors should then then take the following steps: 

1.  Develop a plan of action for their future course work with the department head for their 

proposed new majors. This plan must be in writing. 

2.  For  students  who  have  not  yet  earned  a  Foundation  Year  Certificate,  meet  with  the 
director of the Office of Foundation Year Studies to ensure that their course work plans 
meet the requirements of the foundations curriculum. 

3.  With copy of coursework plan attached, circulate the Change of Major form for signatures. 

Submit the signed form to the Office of the Registrar. 

For applicants who have already earned their Foundation Year Certificates, their request will 
be filed with MoEYS with the next set of items sent. For applicants who have not yet earned 
their foundations certificates, the request will be filed upon such completion. In either case, 
the  university  and  the  student  may  agree  to  change  the  student’s  major  in  the  Paragon 
International registration system in the interest of administrative convenience. This change, 
however, is nonetheless not official until approved by MoEYS who has the last word on the 
matter. 



 
A change in the major of a student may result in changes in the amount of tuitions and changes 
in scholarships and other financial awarded by Paragon International University. Students can 
get information pertaining to their particular case from the Office of Academic Affairs. 

Students may only apply for a change of major before the start of the fifth semester at the 
latest. 

Eligibility for a Minor 

All students at Paragon International University who have a 3.00 or above CGPA are eligible 
to apply to undertake a minor course of study. Approval requires the consent of the heads of 
both the major and minor programs and an approved course of study, which must include at 
least 7 specified core departmental courses in the minor not otherwise required by the first. 

No mention of a minor will be made on a Paragon International University diploma. Receipt 
of the minor will be duly noted on the student’s university transcript. 

Withdrawal of a Degree 

The university reserves the right to withdraw a degree even though it has been granted should 
there be discovery that the work upon which it was based or the academic records in support 
of it had been falsified. In such a case, the degree will be withdrawn promptly upon discovery 
of the falsification. 

XI. APPENDICES 

Appendix A: Detailed description of the generation of letter grades 

The online  classroom  system automatically  calculates  in  all  courses  initial  letter  grades  for 
each  student.  Grading  is  done  on  a  section-by-section  basis,  unless  the  same  instructor 
teaches more than one section of the same course, in which case the students will be grouped 
together. Automatically-generated initial grades are calculated as follows: 

1.  From  the  overall  scores,  a  z-score  is  calculated  for  each  student.  From  these, 
students are assigned a one through nine ranking based upon a modified stanine 
using intervals of width  0.4 𝑠𝑑 , where 𝑠𝑑  is the sample standard deviation of 
the overall scores. 

2.  Any students with a stanine of 9 is awarded AA, 8 is awarded BA, 7 is awarded BB 
and so on down to 3 which is awarded DD. Both rankings 1 and 2 are given an F. 
If no AA is given and if the average overall score is 70 or more, letter grades are 
reassigned using rank 8 is given AA, 7 is given BA, etc., down 2 is given DD and 1 
is given an F. 

3.  After these grade  assignments,  the  following grade adjustments  are  applied in 

order: 
• 

If no student has been awarded an AA, then the student with the 
highest overall score, as well as those who scored within 5% of 
this student, have their grade changed to AA. 

•  Students assigned a grade better than F who also have an overall 
score less than the class average minus one standard deviation 
will have their grade changed to an F. 



 
 
ACADEMIC INTEGRITY 

Paragon International University strives for an intellectual environment consistent with the 
highest of academic standards. Within this community of scholars, everyone, young and old, 
men  and  women,  faculty  members  and  students  alike  must  share  a  commitment  to  the 
integrity of the academic environment through strict adherence to the standards of respect, 
honor and transparency. Therefore, an unwavering commitment to academic integrity is a 
critical component of a Paragon International University education. Responsibility. Integrity. 
Discovery.  Excellence  must  always  exemplify our  behavior,  as  well as  our expectations for 
others behavior, each and every day. 

Policy Statement 

No matter the form of presentation (written, oral, multimedia, etc.), it is the responsibility of 
each individual student to produce his/her own original work. Collaboration or assistance on 
graded  academic  work  is  not  permitted  unless  explicitly  authorized  by  the  instructor. 
Students may utilize the assistance of the Academic Support Unit, the Writing Center, and 
other university sanctioned academic assistance resources unless specifically prohibited by 
the  instructor.  Any  other  sources  of  collaboration  or  assistance  must  be  specifically 
authorized by the course instructor. 

In all academic work, the citation of all sources is required. Students who utilize the assistance 
of  any  university  sanctioned  academic  assistance  resources  must  acknowledge  such 
assistance like any other academic source. The student’s citation/acknowledgement must be 
a part of submitted work. It is not sufficient for it to be separately acknowledged at a later 
point in time. Failure to cite sources properly and completely (including university resources, 
other students, family, etc.) is a violation of the university’s academic integrity standards. 

Instructors  have  a  duty  to  communicate  their  expectations  with  respect  to  collaboration, 
assistance, citation and acknowledgement in each course and every time it is taught. Students 
likewise have a duty to ensure that they understand and abide by the standards that apply in 
any  course  or  academic  activity.  In  the  absence  of  such  understanding,  it  is  the  student’s 
responsibility to seek additional information and clarification.  

Policy Violations 

Cheating  occurs  whenever  a  student  avails  himself  or  herself  of  an  unfair  or  disallowed 
advantage, including, but not limited to: 

1.  Theft of or unauthorized access to an exam, answer key or other graded work from 

previous course offerings. 

2.  Use of an alternate, stand-in or proxy during an examination. 
3.  Copying from the examination or work of another person or source. 
4.  Submission or use of falsified data. 
5.  Using false statements to obtain additional time or other accommodation. 
6.  Falsification of academic credentials. 
7.  Destruction or other sabotage of another student’s academic work. 

Plagiarism is defined as the use of work or concepts contributed by other individuals without 
proper attribution or citation. Unique ideas or materials taken from another source for either 



 
written or oral use must be fully acknowledged in academic work to be graded. Examples of 
sources that require referencing include but are not limited to: 

1.  Text, either written or spoken, quoted directly or paraphrased. 
2.  Graphic elements. 
3.  Passages of music, existing either as sound or as notation. 
4.  Mathematical proofs. 
5.  Scientific data. 
6.  Concepts  or  material  derived from  the  work,  published  or unpublished, of  another 

person. 

Unauthorized  assistance  refers  to  the  use  of  sources  of  support  that  have  not  been 
specifically authorized in this policy statement or by the course instructor(s) in the completion 
of academic work to be graded. Such sources of support may include but are not limited to 
advice or help provided by another individual, published or unpublished written sources, and 
electronic sources. Examples of unauthorized assistance include but are not limited to: 

1.  Collaboration  on  any  assignment  beyond  the  standards  authorized  by  this  policy 

statement and the course instructor(s). 

2.  Submission of work completed or edited in whole or in part by another person. 
3.  Supplying, communicating, or using unauthorized information or materials, including 
graded work and answer keys from previous course offerings, in any way to another 
student. 

4.  Use of unauthorized devices. 
5.  Submission for credit of previously completed graded work in a second course without 
first obtaining permission from the instructor(s) of the second course. In the case of 
concurrent  courses,  permission  to  submit  the  same  work  for  credit  in  two  courses 
must be obtained from the instructors of both courses. 

6.  Intentionally  or  knowingly  helping  or  attempting  to  help  another  to  violate  any 

provision of academic honesty policy. 

Procedures for dealing with allegations of these policy violations are detailed in Academic 
Board Policy 18-004, University Disciplinary Inquiries. 

STUDENT CODE OF CONDUCT 

By enrolling in Paragon International University, students agree to abide by its Student Code 
of Conduct (SCC). The code applies to students’ behavior whenever (i) they are on university 
premises, (ii) they are at any official university function or activity regardless of location, or 
(iii) they are engaging in any activity that directly affects the university’s ability to pursue its 
educational objectives. 

General Conduct 

Classroom Behavior 
Paragon International University supports the principle of freedom of expression for both faculty and 
students.  The  university  respects  the  rights  of  faculty  to  teach  and  students  to learn.  Accordingly, 
disruptive classroom behavior is not tolerated. A person engaging in such behavior may be subject to 
disciplinary action.  
 
Instructors are responsible to determine, maintain, and enforce an atmosphere in their classrooms 
that is conducive to teaching and learning. Willful failure to comply with a reasonable directive of the 
classroom  instructor  or  other  intentional  conduct  that  has  the  effect  of  disrupting  university 
classroom.  If disruptive  activity occurs, instructors are expressly authorized to require students to 
change seats or to require students to exit immediately from the classroom for an amount of time up 
to the remainder of the class period. 

Complicity 
Attempts to commit acts prohibited by the Student Code of Conduct or encouraging others 
to commit acts prohibited by the Student Code of Conduct may be addressed to the  same 
extent as completed violations. A student may be found complicit if he or she is aware of a 
violation of the Student Code of Conduct and has the ability to report the violation but fails 
to do so or fails to remove oneself from reasonable proximity of the violation. 

Disorderly Conduct 
Students  shall  not  engage  in  behavior  that  is  destructive,  dangerous,  harmful,  obstructive,  or 
disorderly, or any conduct that is unreasonable in the time, place, or manner in which it occurs. 

Fire Safety 
Students must comply with all fire safety rules and directives. Tampering with or misusing fire alarms 
or obstructing the functioning of fire alarms, fire exits, fire-fighting equipment, smoke/heat detectors 
and sprinkler systems on University premises. Additionally, causing or creating a fire; the use of all 
open  flame  devices  such  as  (but  not  limited  to):  incense,  candles,  kerosene  lamps,  hibachis,  and 
barbecue  grills;  the  use  of  natural  trees  or  wreaths;  and  the  use  of  any  and  all  fireworks  are  all 
prohibited. 

Identification 
Students  must  carry  their  Paragon  International  ID  cards  at  all  times  when  on  campus  and  not  to 
misuse their identification cards. Misuse includes but is not limited to transferring the card to another 
in order to gain entry to University or to procure University services. Students who fail to present their 
student IDs when requested by security, a faculty member, or university staff are considered to be in 
violation of this code. 

Interference with University Operations 
Any interference with university operations adversely affects the educational environment. As such, 
disruption of any university-authorized activities on or off campus is prohibited. University authorized 
activities  include  but  not  limited  to:  obstruction  of  teaching,  research,  administrative  operations, 
investigations, disciplinary proceedings, and other regular university activities. 

The following are all considered disruptive actions: 

1.  Physical  obstruction  of  access  to  facilities,  nearby  pedestrian  or  vehicular  traffic,  or  of  the 

delivery of emergency services. 

2.  False reporting of an emergency or threat in any form. 
3.  Failure to comply with directions of any member of the university faculty or staff acting in the 

performance of the faculty or staff member's duties. 

4.  Unauthorized possession, use, or duplication of university keys, cards, codes, or other methods 

of access. 

5.  Unauthorized entry to or use of University facilities including opening windows or locked doors 

to allow the entry or exit of unauthorized students or guests. 

6.  Unauthorized entry into or occupation of any university room, facility, or area of the campus, 
including such entry or occupation at any unauthorized time, or any unauthorized or improper 
use of any university property, equipment, or facilities. 

7.  Protests or demonstrations within the interior of any property owned, leased or controlled by 

the university. 
Inciting others to participate in the disruption of university activities. 

8. 
 
9.  Offering  or  causing  to  be  offered  any  bribe  or  favor  to  any  university  employee  or  faculty 

member in an attempt to influence a decision or action. 

Public Postings 
Advertising and posting guidelines are established to aid in the distribution of information throughout 
campus  and  is  coordinated  by  the  Office  of  Student  Affairs  in  conjunction  with  the  Office  of 
Administrative Affairs. All postings are to avoid degrading, disrespectful remarks or advertisements. 
All clubs and individuals must keep in mind others when it comes to privacy and property. Bulletin 
boards  are  available  throughout  campus  for  posting  of  flyers  and  notices.  All  postings  must  be 
approved by Office of Student Affairs before posting. 

Retaliation 
Retaliation for reporting any allegations of student misconduct is in itself a violation of the Student 
Code of Conduct. This also protects retaliation against any participant in the student conduct process. 
The University will take strong action if retaliation occurs against an individual who files a complaint 
or third party report, or any individual who participates in the investigative and/or disciplinary process 
(e.g.,  as  a  witness).  Incidents  of  retaliation  should  be  reported  to  the  Office  of  Student  Affairs 
immediately. 

Solicitation 
Soliciting  for  donations,  soliciting  for  business,  advertising,  or  selling  items  without  receiving  prior 
written authorization from the university is prohibited. 

University Name and Related Graphics 
Except  to  identify  institutional  affiliation,  students  of  Paragon  International  University,  whether 
individually or collectively, shall not use the name of Paragon International University, its logo, or its 
other designs for any purpose without the expressed written consent of the university. Student use of 
Paragon International University letterhead, even by Paragon International student organizations, is 
prohibited. For additional information about using the university name, its logos and designs, see the 
Office of Marketing and International Cooperation. 

Restricted Acts, Items and Substances 

Alcohol and Tobacco 
The sale, use, distribution, consumption, or procurement of alcoholic beverages while on University 
premises is prohibited. Smoking or other use of tobacco products while inside, in front, or within the 
parking area of any university building is prohibited. 

Drugs 
The  use  (or  being  in  the  presence  of  the  use),  possession,  distribution  or  manufacturing  of  any 
controlled substances, except as expressly permitted by law, are prohibited. Being unlawfully under 
the influence of any drug is prohibited 

Gambling 
Gambling in any form is prohibited on all University premises. A person engages in gambling 
if he stakes or risks money upon the outcome of a chance event not under his/her control, 
with the understanding that he/she will receive something of value in the event of a particular 
outcome or outcomes. 

Weapons and Explosives 
The  University  expressly  prohibits  on  University-owned  or  controlled  property  or  at  University-
sponsored functions the possession, display, use or distribution of any weapon to include any firearm 
(including air-or gas-powered firearms), pistol, revolver, shotgun, rifle, assault weapon, ammunition, 
explosive, firework, stun gun, switchblade and other automatic knife, and other deadly or dangerous 
weapons. This prohibition extends to imitation firearms and other objects that can be construed or used as weapons, and to items that pose  a potential hazard to the safety or health of others; and 
unauthorized hazardous materials or chemicals. Exceptions to this policy, particularly for educational 
or performance purposes, must receive specific, written authorization from the Rector. 

Harm to Persons or Property 

Assault/Battery 
Intentionally inflicting bodily harm upon any person; taking reckless action that results in harm to any 
person; or threatening by any means of transmission the use of force to harm or injure any person is 
prohibited. 

Damage to Property 
Students may not intentionally damage the property of: 

the university  

• 
•  any member of the University community 
•  a campus visitor while on University premises 
•  a local resident 

Forgery 
Altering  or  otherwise  falsifying  any  university  document,  any  university  record  or  any 
university  instrument  of  identification,  or  assisting  another  student  in  such  misconduct  is 
prohibited. 

Harassment 
Any  behavior  (verbal,  written,  or  physical)  that  abuses,  assails,  intimidates,  demeans, 
victimizes, or has the effect of creating a hostile environment for any person is prohibited. 

Hazing 
Hazing or attempt at hazing any person are prohibited. Acts of hazing endanger the physical, 
mental,  psychological  or  academic  well-being,  or  safety  of  another  student  or  other 
individual. Such acts include, but are not limited to: 

•  Compulsory alcohol or drug consumption; 
•  Physical brutality; 
•  Psychological cruelty; 
•  Public humiliation; 
•  Morally degrading activities; 
•  Forced confinement. 

Indecent Exposure 
Committing  any  unlawful  or  culturally  unaccepted  act  of  indecent  exposure  or  public 
indecency is prohibited. 

Prohibited Discriminatory Behavior 
Any  verbal  or  physical  abuse  committed  against  or  directed  toward  a  person  or  property  that  is 
motivated,  in  whole or  in  part,  by  bias  toward  a member of  the  University  community’s  actual  or 
perceived  status  with  respect  to  race,  religion,  color,  national  or  ethnic  origin,  age,  sex,  sexual 
orientation, marital status, citizenship status, disability is prohibited. 

Sexual Assault and Misconduct: 
All of the following are prohibited: 

•  Sexual assault or any other uninvited behavior of a sexually explicit nature. 
•  Non-consensual sexual contact of any kind 
 
•  Sexual exploitation or harassment of any kind 

Stalking 
Engaging in a course of conduct directed at a specific person that would cause a reasonable person to 
fear  for  the  person’s  safety  or  the  safety  of  others  or  to  suffer  substantial  emotional  distress  is 
prohibited 

Theft 
Attempted or actual theft of personal, private or public property, either on-campus or off-campus is 
prohibited. This includes, but is not limited to, property of the University; property of a member of 
the University community; property of a campus visitor while on University premises or at University-
sponsored activities. 

Inappropriate Use of Information Technology Resources 

All of the following are prohibited: 

1.  Accessing  or  attempting  to  access  computing  resources  or  computer-based  information 

without proper authorization. 

2.  Disrupting the intended use of computers or computer networks. 
3.  Damaging or destroying computer equipment or computer-based information. 
4.  Disruption of access of other students, faculty, or staff members to University computer and 

IT resources; 

5.  Obtaining or using a password or account assigned to another person without permission from 

that person; 

6.  Use of university computers and IT resources to interfere with the rights of others, including 
damaging  programs  or  equipment  belonging  to  another,  sending  harassing  or  threatening 
material, accessing confidential information without proper authorization 

7.  Assisting  another  person  to  commit  acts  that  violate  Acceptable  Use  of  Information 

Technology Resources policy 

Abuse of Disciplinary Proceedings 

All of the following are prohibited: 

1.  Failure to obey a request to appear before a Hearing Committee. 
2.  Falsification of testimony before a Hearing Committee. 
3.  Disruption or interference with the orderly conduct of any Hearing Committee session. 
4.  Attempting  to  discourage  any  person  from  using  University  Disciplinary  Procedures  or 

participating in any disciplinary proceeding. 

5.  Filing a malicious or frivolous complaint under the University Disciplinary Procedures. 
6.  Attempting  to  influence  the  impartiality  of  a  member  of  a  Hearing  Committee  prior  to  or 

during any disciplinary proceeding. 

7.  Verbal or physical harassment or intimidation of a member of a Hearing Committee prior to, 

during or after any disciplinary proceeding. 

8.  Failure to comply with any sanction imposed under the University Disciplinary Procedures. 
9.  Violation of the privacy rights of any student or University employee about any disciplinary 

proceeding. 

10. Influencing  or  attempting  to  influence  another  person  to  commit  an  abuse  of  disciplinary 

proceedings. 

Other Unlawful Acts 

The university does not permit any act or expression that is forbidden by law. Such acts and 
expression  include,  but  is  not  limited  to,  stealing,  damaging,  possession  of  illegal  items, 
defamation, incitement to unlawful conduct, imminent threats of actual violence or harm, 
 
copyright or trademark violation, criminal or civil harassment, sexual harassment, trespass, 
and false advertising. 

UNIVERSITY DISCIPLINARY INQUIRIES 

I.   OVERVIEW 

There  are  two  basic  categories  of  disciplinary  inquiries  handled  by  the  university, 
academic  and  non-academic.  The  former  consists  of  allegations  of  academic  integrity 
violations, while the latter involve allegations of violations of the Student Code of Conduct 
(SCC).  

For academic disciplinary inquiries, there are two basic tiers of process: 

Tier I:  Initial Inquiries and Actions 
Tier II:  Final Appeals to the Office of the Rector 

For non-academic disciplinary inquiries, there are three basic tiers of process: 

Tier I:  Initial Inquiries and Actions 
Tier II:  University Disciplinary Committee (UDC) Hearing 
Tier III: Final Appeals to the Office of the Rector 

Procedures for Tier I differ substantially between academic and non-academic cases, while 
Tiers II and III follow a somewhat consistent set of procedures. 

In what follows, the discussion is made easier by employing a set of standard definitions. 

Adjudicator  -  University  official  authorized  to  resolve  initial  (Tier  I)  allegations  and 
sanctions.  In  academic  inquiries,  this  is  nearly  always  the  instructor.  In  non-academic 
inquiries, an adjudicator may be appointed by VR Student Affairs. 
Complainant - The person(s) or group bringing allegations forward. In academic inquiries, 
this is most often the instructor, but it could also be a proctor/invigilator, another student, 
etc.  In  non-academic  inquiries,  the  complainant  might  be  almost  anyone.  Especially  in 
cases  where  the  initial  complainant  is  not  a  member  of  the  campus  community,  a 
university official or office may join in the complaint. 
Moderator  -The  University  official  authorized  to  facilitate  a  University  Disciplinary 
Committee  hearing  (Tier  II).  The  hearing  runs  at  their  discretion  according  to  process 
guidelines. This  is  generally  Vice  Rector  for  Academic  Affairs  (academic  inquiries),  Vice 
Rector for Student Affairs (non-academic inquiries), or designee. 
Resolution  -  Typically, the  result of a  complaint  being  adjudicated through the  inquiry 
process. At times, however, a complaint may be resolved informally outside of the inquiry 
process  at  the  discretion  of  the  rector  or  designee  and  the  individuals  involved  in  the 
matter. 
Respondent - The person(s) or group alleged to have committed one or more violations. 

II.  ACADEMIC DISCIPLINARY INQUIRES  

There is no statute of limitations on alleged violations of academic integrity.  Actions may be 
taken even after a student has graduated.  
 
Cases  involving  violation  of  academic  regulations  such  as  cheating  or  plagiarism  shall  be 
regarded as "confidential" in the manner outlined below:  

•  The  specifics  of  any  case  shall  not  be  disclosed  nor  discussed  with  any  individual 
within or outside of the university community. Exceptions to this rule occur when (i) 
such discussion or disclosure is deemed necessary in the  determination of guilt or 
appropriate  sanction,  or  (ii)  such  an  action  is  specifically  imposed  as  part  of  the 
penalty for a violation. 
If the student is exonerated, all relevant records under the control of the university 
will  be  destroyed  (unless  the  student  specifically  requests  that  a  record  of 
exoneration be maintained). 

• 

Procedures for Academic Inquiries -- Tier I 

Initiating an academic disciplinary inquiry 

Any  member  of  the  University  community  who  has  witnessed  an  apparent  act  of 
academic dishonesty or has information that reasonably leads to the conclusion that such 
an act has occurred or has been attempted, has the responsibility to inform the instructor 
of the course. If the instructor is for some reason unavailable, the witness may instead 
inform the instructor’s department head (who will in turn inform the instructor). 

Instructor-level review and actions  

If the instructor of the course determines that there is reasonable cause to believe that 
an academic integrity violation has occurred, the procedures below shall be followed by 
the instructor. (Exceptionally, the department head or other person responsible for this 
course may act on behalf of and in consultation with the instructor in all that follows.) 

1.  The instructor should communicate with the student to discuss the situation and 
determine  the  extent  to  which  there  is  a  common  understanding  of  the  facts. 
Whether or not there is such shared understanding, the instructor shall ensure 
that the student is presented with the basic case supporting the allegation of an 
academic integrity violation. If necessary, this meeting may be done electronically 
by e-mail or by telephone, especially if the instructor is an adjunct faculty.  

2. 

If  the  instructor  concludes  that  an  academic  integrity  violation  has  indeed 
occurred, they may  penalize the student as deemed appropriate. This decision 
must be communicated to the student immediately. 

The instructor’s options include one or a combination of the following: 

•  Warning the student 
•  Reducing  the  grade  on  the  assignment/quiz/exam,  including  giving  a  zero 

grade 

•  Reducing the final grade in the course 
•  Setting a maximum possible final grade for the course, such as no better than 
a DC, regardless of assignment and exam scores. This option includes simply 
giving an F for the course. 

If there is no reply from the student within 48 hours or as extended by the instructor, or 
if the student consents to the instructor’s decision, then the case is closed and the student 
is penalized accordingly. Otherwise, the student may file a letter of appeal to the Provost. 

A committee appointed and chaired by the Provost will serve as the UDC. 

The UDC may decide to increase or decrease the penalty proposed by the instructor. 

Upon completion of the above procedure, the hearing is concluded. The parties are then 
informed of the UDC’s decision. If there is no objection to the decision by either party, 
they will then sign an acknowledgement of the decision.   
 
Final Appeals to the Rector (Tier II) 

Decisions of an academic UDC are subject to appeal to the rector by the complainant 
or by the respondent. Such appeals must be made in writing to the rector no later 
than five working days following the distribution of the notification of resolution. In 
the  event  of  an  appeal,  the  rector  shall  be  provided  with  a  report  and  any  other 
related materials, if applicable. The rector or designee shall render a final judgment 
on all issues no later than ten working days following receipt of the written appeal. 

III. NON-ACADEMIC DISCIPLINARY INQUIRIES 

While there is no statute of limitations on non-academic violations, inquiries nearly always 
take  place  during  the  student’s  tenure  at  the  university.  Very  rarely,  in  the  case  of  some 
extreme  violations of the Student  Code of Conduct  (SCC), the university may act  after the 
former student has left the university with the intent of preventing his/her return to student 
status. 

Violations  of  the  SCC  are  generally  treated  as  confidential,  although  this  is  not  a  strict 
requirement for practical and legal reasons. 

•  The  specifics  of  any  case  shall  not  be  disclosed  nor  discussed  with  any  individual 
within or outside of the university community. Exceptions to this rule occur when (i) 
such discussion or disclosure is deemed necessary in the determination of guilt or 
appropriate sanction, or (ii) it is otherwise necessary for the conduct of the inquiry 
and/or hearing, or (iii) such an action is specifically imposed as part of the penalty for 
a violation, or (iv) such an action is required by law. 

•  The existence of a case, the general nature of a case and the sanctions imposed, if 
any, may be discussed and available to the university community provided that such 
availability is unlikely to lead to the clear identification of the student(s) or faculty 
involved.  
If the student is exonerated, all relevant records under the control of the university 
must be retained for a time sufficient to address any future legal contingencies.  

• 

Procedures for Non-Academic Inquiries -- Tier I 

Initiating a non-academic disciplinary inquiry 

A non-academic disciplinary inquiry is initiated whenever VR Student Affairs receives 
information  that  credibly  alleges  on  or  more  violations  of  the  SCC  by  a  Paragon 
International University student. The substantiating information may be contained in 
a  report  from  a  security  or  policing  agency,  or  in  a  complaint  or  report  filed  by  a 
student,  a  faculty  or  staff  member,  or  a  community  member  at  large,  with  a 
representative of Paragon International University. Such complaints or reports, once 
received by any member of the university community, should then be directed to VR 
Student Affairs. 

VR Student Affairs shall initiate an inquiry in cases where a student has been convicted 
in public court of any of the following serious crimes:  

•  Murder, manslaughter, aggravated assault, or rape. 
•  The  illegal  manufacture,  sale  or  possession  with  the  intent  to  sell  any 

controlled drug or other controlled substance. 
•  Arson, robbery, burglary, theft, criminal mischief 

Students who withdraw from the university with unresolved SCC allegations should 
expect  the  university  to  adjudicate  the  matter  to  bring  the  case  to  resolution  and 
uphold  the  university’s  obligation  to  expressly  articulate  eligibility  to  return  to  the 
university.  If  a  good  faith  effort  to  participate  in  the  appropriate  process  is  not 
exhibited by the respondent, the university may elect to resolve the matter through 
the student conduct process without that student's participation. 

Initial actions by VR Student Affairs 

Upon receipt of the complaint or report, VR Student Affairs will review the case and take one 
or more of the following actions: 
1. 

In extreme cases where there is a potential threat to the health and safety of the campus 
community, make a recommendation to the Rector to take an emergency action. 

2.  Convene  an  Administrative  Resolution  Meeting  to  attempt  a  direct  administration 

resolution of the matter. This is the most usual and normal action at this stage.  

3.  Make  a  determination  to  bypass  the  Administrative  Resolution  Meeting  and  proceed 

directly to a UDC hearing due to exceptional circumstances surrounding the case. 

Emergency actions 

For  incidents  that  pose  immediate  concerns  for  the  safety  and  welfare  of  the  campus 
community before the completion of the student conduct process, the Rector or his designee 
may take summary action and/or implement interim measures that: 

limit a student's ability to be present on campus 

• 
•  engage in coursework 
• 

interact with specific members of the university community  

Such measures may remain in place until a formal resolution of the student conduct process 
is reached. 

Administrative Resolution Meetings 

Upon notification of an alleged violation of the SCC, a student may be asked to meet with a 
university adjudicator, typically the Director of Student Services, in an attempt to resolve the 
matter. A successful administrative resolution consists of agreement between the adjudicator 
and the student on each of the following: 

1.  The  essential  facts  related  to  the  incident.  The  facts  as  understood  by  the 

university must not be disputed by the student. 

2.  The  violation  of  the  Student  Code  of  Conduct.  The  student  must  agree  that 
what  occurred  during  the  incident  was  a  violation  of  the  Student  Code  of 
Conduct. 

3.  A proposed outcome or set of outcomes must be determined. The student and 
the adjudicator must jointly agree about what outcome(s) will be proposed for 
resolution of the matter, taking into account where appropriate the concerns 
of the reporting party. 

The  aforementioned  proposed  outcome  or  set  of  outcomes  will  be  reviewed  by  the  VR 
Student  Affairs.  If  the  review  is  favorable,  the  student  will  receive  notification  in  writing 
confirming the determined action, which then becomes final. If agreement on the appropriate 
action  cannot  be  reached,  the  matter  may  be  referred  to  the  non-academic  University 
Disciplinary Committee. 

Procedures for Non-Academic UDC Hearings -- Tier II 

Reasons for non-academic UDC hearings 

VR Student Affairs shall call for a UDC hearing on a non-academic issue whenever: 

• 

the attempt at administrative resolution either failed or failed to take place; 
•  exceptional circumstances surrounding the case warrant bypassing the usual 

administrative resolution meeting and proceeding directly to the UDC hearing. 

Composition of non-academic UDCs 

Each  academic  year,  the  Academic  Board  shall  appoint  three  members  of  the  faculty 
and/or staff to serve on all UDCs involving non-academic issues. (Absent an appointment, 
the three members shall be Director of Campus, IT, and Registrar.) VR Student Affairs shall 
sit as non-voting chairperson and moderator. It is expected that the complainant (and/or 
other appropriate representative(s) of the university) will be available for participation or 
at least for consultation. 

Should  a  member  of  the  non-academic  UDC  not  be  available  for  a  particular  hearing 
(possibly due to absence, or because he/she is the complainant, or other possible conflicts 
of interest), then the rector shall select another member to serve in that person’s stead 
for the meeting. 

Non-academic UDC procedures 

The parties shall be informed in writing of the date, time and location of this review by 
VR  Student  Affairs.  During  the  hearing,  the  complainant  and  respondent  may  address 
their remarks to the UDC members and may seek clarifications from the moderator, but 
the complainant  and respondent may not directly address  each other unless expressly 
directed to do so by the moderator. 

Decisions made  by  the  UDC  shall  be  determined  by a  majority  (i.e. at  least  2 out  of  3 
votes). 

The order of the proceeding shall be as follows: 

1.  The  complainant  shall  present  the  case  against  the  respondent.  Members  of  the 
committee may ask clarifying questions both during and after the case presentation. 
2.  The respondent shall present his/her defense. Members of the committee may ask 

clarifying questions both during and after the case presentation. 

3.  UDC members may direct questions to both of the parties in order to obtain a deep 
enough  understanding  so  that  the  committee  can  move  to  the  stage  of  making 
findings. 

5. 

4.  The complainant and respondent leave the room. The UDC members review the facts 
of incidents involved and are required to begin resolution of the case by answering 
the question did the respondent commit any violations and, if so, what?  
If  the  UDC  determines  that  no  violations  have  occurred,  then  the  hearing  is 
concluded. If at least one violation was found to have occurred, then they shall turn 
their attention to the question what are the consequences for the respondent? Prior 
to answering this question, they shall have the complainant and respondent return 
to  the  hearing  to  learn  the  finding  and  to  each  make  a  statement  with  regard  to 
appropriate  consequences.  Respondent  shall  address  the  committee  first,  and  the 
complainant shall address the committee last. 

The  UDC’s  options  for  sanctions  include  the  each  and  perhaps  a  combination  of  the 
following: 

•  Admonition: A notice to the student, orally or in writing, that he/she has violated 
a  rule  of  conduct  and  that  continuation  or  repetition  of  the  conduct  found 
wrongful may be cause for more severe disciplinary action. 

• 

Letter of Apology/or Reflection: A short reflective paper written by the student 
describing the misconduct and acknowledging wrong-doing. 

•  Educational  Session:  A  requirement  that  the  student  attend  an  educational 
session, if available, addressing the misconduct. (The educational session may be 
offered by an individual (e.g., VR Student Affairs) or through a formal workshop 
offered through an appropriate University office or other organization.)  
•  Censure: A reprimand for violation of a specified University regulation, including 
the possibility of more severe disciplinary sanction in the event of conviction for 
the  violation of any University  regulation within a period of time  stated in the 
reprimand. 

•  Restitution:  Reimbursement  for  damage  or  misappropriation  of  property. 
Reimbursement may take the form of appropriate service to repair or otherwise 
compensate  for  damages.  This  may  include  consequences  in  the  form  of 
additional  sanctions  if  the  student  is  not  forthcoming  with  the  required 
reimbursement. 

•  Exclusion  from  Campus  Facilities:  Exclusion  from  facilities  including,  among 
others, revocation of computing privileges, as set forth in the notice of exclusion 
from specific campus facilities for a specified period of time. 

•  Exclusion  from  Campus:  Denial  of  access  to  the  campus  for  non-academic 
misconduct.  This  may  include  conditions  for  removing  the  ban,  which  shall  be 
reflected  in  the  exclusion  order.  Exclusion  from  campus  orders  require  the 
approval of the rector.  

•  Suspension: Exclusion from classes and other privileges or activities as set forth 
in  the  notice  of  suspension  for  a  specified  period  of  time.  Suspension  orders 
require the approval of the rector. 

•  Expulsion: Termination of student status for an indefinite period. The conditions 
of readmission, if any, shall be stated in the order of expulsion. Expulsion orders 
require the approval of the rector. A notation shall be placed on the student’s 
transcript  for  an  indefinite  period  of  time.  The  student  may  apply  to  the  VR 
Student  Affairs  to  request  to  have  the  notation  of  expulsion  removed  from 
his/her transcript three years after the imposition of the sanction. Decisions to 
remove the transcript notation must be approved by the Academic Board. 

Upon completion of the above procedure, the hearing is concluded. The parties are not 
verbally informed of the results at this time. It falls upon the moderator to render the 
decision in writing to the respondent, with copies to: 

• 
• 
• 
• 

the complainant  
the respondent’s department head 
the Office of Academic Affairs 
the Office of the Registrar 

If both the complainant and the respondent accept the decision of the UDC, they shall sign 
an acknowledgement to that effect on the decision letter. The decision is then final and not 
appealable by either party. If the decision letter is not signed by at least one of the parties, 
but five working days have elapsed since the notice of the decision letter, then again the 
decision is final and not appealable by either party. 

IV. FINAL APPEALS TO THE RECTOR 

Decisions  of  the  UDC  are  subject  to  appeal  to  the  rector  by  the  complainant  or 
respondent. Such appeals must be made in writing to the rector no later than five 
working days following the distribution of the notification of resolution. In the event 
of  an  appeal,  Rector  shall  be  provided:  (i)  the  letter  to  the  student  detailing  the 
results of the UDC, (ii) a written opinion about the case from the moderator, and (iii) 
any other related materials, if applicable. The rector or designee shall render a final
judgment on all issues no later than ten working days following receipt of the written 
appeal. 
